packages/site/data/docs/intro/benchmarks.mdx, before:

---
title: Benchmarks
description: Performance tests and comparisons.
---

We've forked a common test suite for styling libraries. All tests were run in a production environment on a Macbook M1 Pro (2021). The [benchmarks](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/tree/master/packages/benchmarks) are open-source.

Tamagui truly shines with inline styles, themes and media queries, which are key to sharing between native/web, but these tests don't show much of that. The plan is to add one more more realistic and mixed benchmark which really tests a typical complex app page. We think this test will be even more favorable for Tamagui.

<Notice>
  Like all benchmarks, these are micro and may have bad performance due to errors on our part. We
  welcome any improvements to other library implementations.
</Notice>

### Simple component

Timing rendering a simple custom component.

{

<BenchmarkChart
  data={[
    { name: 'Tamagui', value: 0.018 },
    { name: 'react-native-web', value: 0.057 },
    { name: 'Dripsy', value: 0.042 },
    { name: 'NativeBase', value: 0.67 },
    { name: 'Stitches', value: 0.023 },
    { name: 'Emotion', value: 0.041 },
  ]}
/>
}

### Updating variants

Changing variants is fast at runtime, and even faster when compiled:

{

<BenchmarkChart
  data={[
    { name: 'Tamagui', value: 0.02 },
    { name: 'react-native-web', value: 0.063 },
    { name: 'Dripsy', value: 0.108 },
    { name: 'NativeBase', value: 0.73 },
    { name: 'Stitches', value: 0.037 },
    { name: 'Emotion', value: 0.069 },
    { name: 'styled-components', value: 0.081 },
  ]}
/>
}

> Note: Since styled-components and Emotion don't offer a first-class variant API, this was done via prop interpolation.

### Updating inline styles

Tamagui has a big advantage for inline styles, it's the only library to compile them and flatten the tree.

{

<BenchmarkChart
  data={[
    { name: 'Tamagui', value: 0.025 },
    { name: 'react-native-web', value: 0.06 },
    { name: 'NativeBase', value: 0.8 },
    { name: 'Dripsy', value: 0.266 },
    { name: 'Stitches', value: 0.027 },
    { name: 'Emotion', value: 0.047 },
  ]}
/>
}

---

### Dynamic styles (no compilation)

<Notice>
  React Native compatible components are far more feature-rich than web-only, and these next two
  tests show a really extreme case where nothing can be optimized. We left them in to be up-front,
  but don't think they represent anywhere near a common use case.
</Notice>

{

<BenchmarkChart
  data={[
    { name: 'Tamagui', value: 31.0 },
    { name: 'Dripsy', value: 57.5 },
    { name: 'Stitches', value: 14.5 },
    { name: 'Emotion', value: 49.01 },
  ]}
/>
}

> Note: This test was taken from the [styled-components benchmarks](https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components/tree/main/packages/benchmarks).

### Mounting deep tree

In this test, we mount a tree with many nested nodes.

{

<BenchmarkChart
  data={[
    { name: 'Tamagui', value: 18.61 },
    { name: 'Dripsy', value: 44.43 },
    { name: 'Stitches', value: 8.32 },
    { name: 'Emotion', value: 42.49 },
    { name: 'styled-components', value: 51.4 },
  ]}
/>
}

> Note: This test was taken from the [styled-components benchmarks](https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components/tree/main/packages/benchmarks).

## Summary

Tamagui greatly increases render performance and compares well to even the fastest web-only style libraries.

Tamagui should dramatically outperform other libraries for both media queries and themes, which we will publish in upcoming tests.

Commit message:

site: benchmarks leave nativebase out of charts

packages/site/data/docs/intro/benchmarks.mdx, after:

---
title: Benchmarks
description: Performance tests and comparisons.
---

We've forked a common test suite for styling libraries. All tests were run in a production environment on a Macbook M1 Pro (2021). The [benchmarks](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/tree/master/packages/benchmarks) are open-source.

Tamagui truly shines with inline styles, themes and media queries, which are key to sharing between native/web, but these tests don't show much of that. The plan is to add one more more realistic and mixed benchmark which really tests a typical complex app page. We think this test will be even more favorable for Tamagui.

<Notice>
  Like all benchmarks, these are micro and may have bad performance due to errors on our part. We
  welcome any improvements to other library implementations.
</Notice>

We benchmarked NativeBase but the performance was far worse than the rest, which distorted the charts. We've left the numbers in text below.

### Simple component

Timing rendering a simple custom component.

{

<BenchmarkChart
  data={[
    { name: 'Tamagui', value: 0.018 },
    { name: 'react-native-web', value: 0.057 },
    { name: 'Dripsy', value: 0.042 },
    { name: 'Stitches', value: 0.023 },
    { name: 'Emotion', value: 0.041 },
  ]}
/>
}

> NativeBase: 0.67

### Updating variants

Changing variants is fast at runtime, and even faster when compiled:

{

<BenchmarkChart
  data={[
    { name: 'Tamagui', value: 0.02 },
    { name: 'react-native-web', value: 0.063 },
    { name: 'Dripsy', value: 0.108 },
    { name: 'Stitches', value: 0.037 },
    { name: 'Emotion', value: 0.069 },
    { name: 'styled-components', value: 0.081 },
  ]}
/>
}

> NativeBase: 0.73. Since styled-components and Emotion don't offer a first-class variant API, this was done via prop interpolation.

### Updating inline styles

Tamagui has a big advantage for inline styles, it's the only library to compile them and flatten the tree.

{

<BenchmarkChart
  data={[
    { name: 'Tamagui', value: 0.025 },
    { name: 'react-native-web', value: 0.06 },
    { name: 'Dripsy', value: 0.266 },
    { name: 'Stitches', value: 0.027 },
    { name: 'Emotion', value: 0.047 },
  ]}
/>
}

> NativeBase: 0.8

---

### Dynamic styles (no compilation)

<Notice>
  React Native compatible components are far more feature-rich than web-only, and these next two
  tests show a really extreme case where nothing can be optimized. We left them in to be up-front,
  but don't think they represent anywhere near a common use case.
</Notice>

{

<BenchmarkChart
  data={[
    { name: 'Tamagui', value: 31.0 },
    { name: 'Dripsy', value: 57.5 },
    { name: 'Stitches', value: 14.5 },
    { name: 'Emotion', value: 49.01 },
  ]}
/>
}

> Note: This test was taken from the [styled-components benchmarks](https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components/tree/main/packages/benchmarks).

### Mounting deep tree

In this test, we mount a tree with many nested nodes.

{

<BenchmarkChart
  data={[
    { name: 'Tamagui', value: 18.61 },
    { name: 'Dripsy', value: 44.43 },
    { name: 'Stitches', value: 8.32 },
    { name: 'Emotion', value: 42.49 },
    { name: 'styled-components', value: 51.4 },
  ]}
/>
}

> Note: This test was taken from the [styled-components benchmarks](https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components/tree/main/packages/benchmarks).

## Summary

Tamagui greatly increases render performance and compares well to even the fastest web-only style libraries.

Tamagui should dramatically outperform other libraries for both media queries and themes, which we will publish in upcoming tests.
