packages/site/data/docs/intro/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
description: How to get Tamagui set up.
---

Tamagui is a full-featured UI kit built on top of `@tamagui/core`.

The instructions here are for using `tamagui`: a more complete set of components designed to build entire apps out of the box. It's tree-shakeable so only adds to your bundle what you use.

If you'd rather build your own design system on top of core, [see the Design Systems guide](/docs/guides/design-systems).

### Install Tamagui

```bash
yarn add tamagui react-native-web

# for web, webpack, only:
yarn add tamagui-loader

# for react-native, only:
yarn add @tamagui/babel-plugin
```

### Set up your build

For more information on the options, see the [compiler options](#compiler-options). Whether using Webpack or Next.js, **be sure to not use the Tamagui babel plugin in your web build!** They are either-or: the babel plugin only for React Native, and tamagui-loader or next plugin only for web.

#### Webpack

Add `tamagui-loader` and set up your `webpack.config.js`:

```js
{
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.[jt]sx?$/,
        // be sure to include tamagui
        include: /tamagui/,
        use: [
          // optionally thread-loader for significantly faster compile!
          'thread-loader',

          // works nicely alongside esbuild
          'esbuild-loader',

          {
            loader: 'tamagui-loader',
            options: {
              config: './tamagui.config.ts',
              components: ['tamagui'],
              importsWhitelist: ['constants.js', 'colors.js'],
              logTimings: true,
              disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
            },
          },
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  plugins: [
    new webpack.DefinePlugin({
      'process.env.TAMAGUI_TARGET': '"web"',
    })
  ]
}
```

#### Next.js

<Notice>Support only for Next.js 11 right now</Notice>

Add `@tamagui/next-plugin` and configure your `next.config.js`:

```js
const withPlugins = require('next-compose-plugins')
const { withTamagui } = require('@tamagui/next-plugin')

export default withPlugins([
  withTamagui({
    config: './tamagui.config.ts',
    components: ['tamagui'],
    importsWhitelist: ['constants.js', 'colors.js'],
    logTimings: true,
    disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
  })
])
```

#### React Native

Add `@tamagui/babel-plugin` to your `babel.config.js` plugins:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    [
      '@tamagui/babel-plugin',
      {
        components: ['tamagui'],
        config: './tests/lib/tamagui.config.js',
        importsWhitelist: ['constants.js', 'colors.js'],
        logTimings: true,
        disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

### Compiler options

The webpack loader and Next.js plugin accept the same configuration options:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'config',
      required: true,
      type: 'string',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      description:
        'Relative path to your tamagui.config.ts file which should export default the result from createTamagui.',
    },
    {
      name: 'components',
      required: false,
      type: 'string[]',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: "['tamagui']",
      description:
        'Array of npm modules containing Tamagui components which youll be using in your app. For example:  if you are using the base Tamagui components. This directs the compiler to load and optimize.',
    },
    {
      name: 'importsWhitelist',
      required: false,
      type: 'string[]',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      description:
        "Array of whitelisted file paths (always end in .js) which the compiler may parse at build-time. This usually is  like ['constants.js', 'colors.js'], enabling extraction of any constant in those files",
    },
    {
      name: 'logTimings',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: true,
      description:
        'Tamagui outputs information for each file it compiles on how long it took to run, how many components it optimized, and how many it flattened. Set to false to disable these logs.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableExtraction',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: false,
      description:
        'Disable extraction to CSS completely, instead fully relying on runtime. Setting this to true speed up development as generally your app will hot reload the Tamagui configuration itself.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableDebugAttr',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: false,
      description:
        'If enabled along with disableExtraction, all parsing will turn off. Normally turning off disableExtraction will keep the helpful debug attributes in DOM',
    },
  ]}
/>

### Set up your theme

You'll want to create a `tamagui.config.js` (or ts) file at the root of your project that passes in a theme. For more documentation see [Themes](/docs/intro/themes).

```ts
import { createTamagui } from 'tamagui'

const config = createTamagui({
  defaultTheme: 'light',
  shorthands: {
    px: 'paddingHorizontal',
  },
  themes: {
    light: {
      bg: '#fff',
      color: '#000'
    }
  },
  tokens: {
    // ... see Themes docus
  },
  media: {
    xs: { maxWidth: 660 },
    gtXs: { minWidth: 660 + 1 },
    sm: { maxWidth: 860 },
    gtSm: { minWidth: 860 + 1 },
    md: { minWidth: 980 },
    gtMd: { minWidth: 980 + 1 },
    short: { maxHeight: 820 },
    tall: { minHeight: 820 },
    hoverNone: { hover: 'none' },
    pointerCoarse: { pointer: 'coarse' },
  },
})

type Conf = typeof config

declare module 'tamagui' {
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends Conf {}
}

export default config
```

The `createTamagui` function receives a configuration object:

- `tokens`: Use `createTokens` to generate variables in your theme and app.
- `theme`: Define your design [theme](/docs/intro/themes), which map to CSS properties.
- `media`: Define reusable responsive [media queries](/docs/use-media).
- `shorthands`: Define any props you want to expand to style values, keys being the shorthand and values being the expanded style prop.

### Add Provider

Import and use the Tamagui `Provider` component at the top component in your app.

```jsx line=5-7
import Tamagui from './tamagui.config'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <Tamagui.Provider>
      {/* The rest of your app here */}
    </Tamagui.Provider>
  )
}

```

### Use any views

You're now ready to use Tamagui, import and use any components:

<Preview>
  <DemoButton />
</Preview>

```jsx class=preview line=5
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default function Demo() {
  return (
    <Button>Button</Button>
  )
}
```

Commit message:

tamagui/core: 🐛 Fix regression useTheme return properly themed ThemeObject type, 🐛 Fix Button.icon and Button.iconAfter accept component or element types

packages/site/data/docs/intro/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
description: How to get Tamagui set up.
---

Tamagui is a full-featured UI kit built on top of `@tamagui/core`.

The instructions here are for using `tamagui`: a more complete set of components designed to build entire apps out of the box. It's tree-shakeable so only adds to your bundle what you use.

If you'd rather build your own design system on top of core, [see the Design Systems guide](/docs/guides/design-systems).

### Install Tamagui

```bash
yarn add tamagui react-native-web

# for web, webpack, only:
yarn add tamagui-loader

# for react-native, only:
yarn add @tamagui/babel-plugin
```

### Set up your build

For more information on the options, see the [compiler options](#compiler-options). Whether using Webpack or Next.js, **be sure to not use the Tamagui babel plugin in your web build!** They are either-or: the babel plugin only for React Native, and tamagui-loader or next plugin only for web.

#### Webpack

Add `tamagui-loader` and set up your `webpack.config.js`:

```js
{
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.[jt]sx?$/,
        // be sure to include tamagui
        include: /tamagui/,
        use: [
          // optionally thread-loader for significantly faster compile!
          'thread-loader',

          // works nicely alongside esbuild
          'esbuild-loader',

          {
            loader: 'tamagui-loader',
            options: {
              config: './tamagui.config.ts',
              components: ['tamagui'],
              importsWhitelist: ['constants.js', 'colors.js'],
              logTimings: true,
              disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
            },
          },
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  plugins: [
    new webpack.DefinePlugin({
      'process.env.TAMAGUI_TARGET': '"web"',
    })
  ]
}
```

#### Next.js

<Notice>Support only for Next.js 11 right now</Notice>

Add `@tamagui/next-plugin` and configure your `next.config.js`:

```js
const withPlugins = require('next-compose-plugins')
const { withTamagui } = require('@tamagui/next-plugin')

export default withPlugins([
  withTamagui({
    config: './tamagui.config.ts',
    components: ['tamagui'],
    importsWhitelist: ['constants.js', 'colors.js'],
    logTimings: true,
    disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
  })
])
```

#### React Native

Add `@tamagui/babel-plugin` to your `babel.config.js` plugins:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    [
      '@tamagui/babel-plugin',
      {
        components: ['tamagui'],
        config: './tests/lib/tamagui.config.js',
        importsWhitelist: ['constants.js', 'colors.js'],
        logTimings: true,
        disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

We've noticed errors in other versions (`0.65.5`), so you may want to pin `@types/react-native` to `0.66.6`.

### Compiler options

The webpack loader and Next.js plugin accept the same configuration options:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'config',
      required: true,
      type: 'string',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      description:
        'Relative path to your tamagui.config.ts file which should export default the result from createTamagui.',
    },
    {
      name: 'components',
      required: false,
      type: 'string[]',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: "['tamagui']",
      description:
        'Array of npm modules containing Tamagui components which youll be using in your app. For example:  if you are using the base Tamagui components. This directs the compiler to load and optimize.',
    },
    {
      name: 'importsWhitelist',
      required: false,
      type: 'string[]',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      description:
        "Array of whitelisted file paths (always end in .js) which the compiler may parse at build-time. This usually is  like ['constants.js', 'colors.js'], enabling extraction of any constant in those files",
    },
    {
      name: 'logTimings',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: true,
      description:
        'Tamagui outputs information for each file it compiles on how long it took to run, how many components it optimized, and how many it flattened. Set to false to disable these logs.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableExtraction',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: false,
      description:
        'Disable extraction to CSS completely, instead fully relying on runtime. Setting this to true speed up development as generally your app will hot reload the Tamagui configuration itself.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableDebugAttr',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: false,
      description:
        'If enabled along with disableExtraction, all parsing will turn off. Normally turning off disableExtraction will keep the helpful debug attributes in DOM',
    },
  ]}
/>

### Set up your theme

You'll want to create a `tamagui.config.js` (or ts) file at the root of your project that passes in a theme. For more documentation see [Themes](/docs/intro/themes).

```ts
import { createTamagui } from 'tamagui'

const config = createTamagui({
  defaultTheme: 'light',
  shorthands: {
    px: 'paddingHorizontal',
  },
  themes: {
    light: {
      bg: '#fff',
      color: '#000'
    }
  },
  tokens: {
    // ... see Themes docus
  },
  media: {
    xs: { maxWidth: 660 },
    gtXs: { minWidth: 660 + 1 },
    sm: { maxWidth: 860 },
    gtSm: { minWidth: 860 + 1 },
    md: { minWidth: 980 },
    gtMd: { minWidth: 980 + 1 },
    short: { maxHeight: 820 },
    tall: { minHeight: 820 },
    hoverNone: { hover: 'none' },
    pointerCoarse: { pointer: 'coarse' },
  },
})

type Conf = typeof config

declare module 'tamagui' {
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends Conf {}
}

export default config
```

The `createTamagui` function receives a configuration object:

- `tokens`: Use `createTokens` to generate variables in your theme and app.
- `theme`: Define your design [theme](/docs/intro/themes), which map to CSS properties.
- `media`: Define reusable responsive [media queries](/docs/use-media).
- `shorthands`: Define any props you want to expand to style values, keys being the shorthand and values being the expanded style prop.

### Add Provider

Import and use the Tamagui `Provider` component at the top component in your app.

```jsx line=5-7
import Tamagui from './tamagui.config'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <Tamagui.Provider>
      {/* The rest of your app here */}
    </Tamagui.Provider>
  )
}

```

### Use any views

You're now ready to use Tamagui, import and use any components:

<Preview>
  <DemoButton />
</Preview>

```jsx class=preview line=5
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default function Demo() {
  return (
    <Button>Button</Button>
  )
}
```
