packages/site/data/docs/intro/props.mdx, before:

---
title: Tamagui Props
description: All the properties supported on base Tamagui components.
---

Tamagui uses a superset of the style properties that are supported in React Native and React Native Web, and flattens them onto the direct properties of Stack and Text ([see why below](#why-inline-style-props)).

For the full list of style and non-style props, see:

- [View](https://reactnative.dev/docs/view-style-props), or
- [Text](https://reactnative.dev/docs/text-style-props)

You may also want to reference the [react-native-web docs](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/docs/) for more on props related to:

- [Accessibility](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/docs/accessibility/)
- [Interactions](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/docs/interactions/)
- [Localization](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/docs/localization/)

Outside of style properties, Tamagui adds:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'theme',
      required: false,
      type: 'string',
      description: (
        <span>
          Apply a [theme or sub-theme](/docs/intro/themes) to this component and the components
          below it.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'className',
      required: false,
      type: 'string',
      description: (
        <span>
          <strong>Web Only</strong>: Only affects web apps, giving an escape hatch to set the
          className directly. This works fully with the compiler, which will concat your defined
          className with its generated class names.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'tag',
      required: false,
      type: 'string',
      description: (
        <span>
          <strong>Web Only</strong>: Renders the final DOM property using the given tag.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'space',
      required: false,
      type: "boolean | string | TamaguiConfig['space']",
      description: (
        <span>
          Spacing is built into Tamagui and can accept a number or token.space value. This will
          filter out any nullish child elements and insert a spacer component between the remaining
          elements.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'debug',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean | "verbose" | "break"',
      description: (
        <span>
          When set to true Tamagui will output a variety of helpful information on how it parsed and
          applied styling. Verbose will output more information, and break will hit a debugger at
          the start of render in development mode.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'asChild',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: (
        <span>
          When set to true Tamagui will output a variety of helpful information on how it parsed and
          applied styling.
        </span>
      ),
    },
  ]}
/>

### Text props

For Text and all parents of Text components, you add the following props (beyond react-native-web):

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'selectable',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: <span>Sets cursor to text, and userSelect to text.</span>,
    },
  ]}
/>

### Flat transform properties

For styling, Tamagui adds flattened transform properties, pseudo states and media queries:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'x',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ translateX }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'y',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ translateY }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'scale',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ scale }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'perspective',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ perspective }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'scaleX',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ scaleX }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'scaleY',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ scaleY }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'skewX',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ skewX }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'skewY',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ skewY }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'matrix',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ matrix }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'rotate',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ rotate }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'rotateY',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ rotateY }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'rotateX',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ rotateX }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'rotateZ',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ rotateZ }]',
    },
  ]}
/>

### Pseudo style props

Support for `hoverStyle`, `pressStyle`, and `focusStyle` is helpful as it turns what typically is complex stateful code into pure CSS on web, and a more performant StyleSheet.create (compared to inline styles) for native. They can be used with media queries as well.

```jsx
<Text color="red" hoverStyle={{ color: 'blue' }} />
```

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'hoverStyle',
      required: false,
      type: 'TamaguiStyleProps',
      description: 'Web only: Applies the given style on hover',
    },
    {
      name: 'pressStyle',
      required: false,
      type: 'TamaguiStyleProps',
      description: 'Applies the given style on press',
    },
    {
      name: 'focusStyle',
      required: false,
      type: 'TamaguiStyleProps',
      description: 'Applies the given style on focus',
    },
  ]}
/>

### Media query style props

Based on whatever media queries you define in `createTamagui`, you can now use any of them to apply styling on native and web using the `$` prefix.

If you defined your media query like:

```jsx
createTamagui({
  media: {
    sm: { maxWidth: 800 }
  }
})
```

Then you can use it like:

```jsx
<Text color="red" $sm={{ color: 'blue' }} />
```

### Hover Events

Tamagui adds events above the typical react-native/react-native-web View/Text props. These are:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'onHoverIn',
      required: false,
      type: '(e: HoverEvent) => void',
      description: 'Web only: maps to onMouseEnter',
    },
    {
      name: 'onHoverOut',
      required: false,
      type: '(e: HoverEvent) => void',
      description: 'Web only: maps to onMouseLeave',
    },

]}
/>

Commit message:

feat(core): Make space go both directions by default, add spaceDirection to control

packages/site/data/docs/intro/props.mdx, after:

---
title: Tamagui Props
description: All the properties supported on base Tamagui components.
---

Tamagui uses a superset of the style properties that are supported in React Native and React Native Web, and flattens them onto the direct properties of Stack and Text ([see why below](#why-inline-style-props)).

For the full list of style and non-style props, see:

- [View](https://reactnative.dev/docs/view-style-props), or
- [Text](https://reactnative.dev/docs/text-style-props)

You may also want to reference the [react-native-web docs](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/docs/) for more on props related to:

- [Accessibility](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/docs/accessibility/)
- [Interactions](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/docs/interactions/)
- [Localization](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/docs/localization/)

Outside of flat style properties, Tamagui adds the following props:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'theme',
      required: false,
      type: 'string',
      description: (
        <span>
          Apply a [theme or sub-theme](/docs/intro/themes) to this component and the components
          below it.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'className',
      required: false,
      type: 'string',
      description: (
        <span>
          <strong>Web Only</strong>: Only affects web apps, giving an escape hatch to set the
          className directly. This works fully with the compiler, which will concat your defined
          className with its generated class names.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'tag',
      required: false,
      type: 'string',
      description: (
        <span>
          <strong>Web Only</strong>: Renders the final DOM property using the given tag.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'space',
      required: false,
      type: "boolean | string | TamaguiConfig['space']",
      description: (
        <span>
          Spacing is built into Tamagui and can accept a number or token.space value. This will
          filter out any nullish child elements and insert a spacer component between the remaining
          elements.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'spaceDirection',
      required: false,
      default: 'both',
      type: `'row' | 'column' | 'both'`,
      description: (
        <span>
          By default the space inserted is a square, but if you set it to row it will be 0px tall,
          column will be 0px wide.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'fullscreen',
      required: false,
      type: `boolean`,
      description: <span>Sets position absolute, and top, left, right, and bottom all to 0.</span>,
    },
    {
      name: 'debug',
      required: false,
      type: `boolean | 'verbose' | 'break'`,
      description: (
        <span>
          When set to true Tamagui will output a variety of helpful information on how it parsed and
          applied styling. Verbose will output more information, and break will hit a debugger at
          the start of render in development mode.
        </span>
      ),
    },
    {
      name: 'asChild',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: (
        <span>
          When set to true Tamagui will output a variety of helpful information on how it parsed and
          applied styling.
        </span>
      ),
    },
  ]}
/>

### Text props

For Text and all parents of Text components, you add the following props (beyond react-native-web):

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'selectable',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: <span>Sets cursor to text, and userSelect to text.</span>,
    },
  ]}
/>

### Flat transform properties

For styling, Tamagui adds flattened transform properties, pseudo states and media queries:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'x',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ translateX }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'y',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ translateY }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'scale',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ scale }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'perspective',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ perspective }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'scaleX',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ scaleX }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'scaleY',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ scaleY }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'skewX',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ skewX }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'skewY',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ skewY }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'matrix',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ matrix }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'rotate',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ rotate }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'rotateY',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ rotateY }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'rotateX',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ rotateX }]',
    },
    {
      name: 'rotateZ',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | number',
      description: 'Maps to transform: [{ rotateZ }]',
    },
  ]}
/>

### Pseudo style props

Support for `hoverStyle`, `pressStyle`, and `focusStyle` is helpful as it turns what typically is complex stateful code into pure CSS on web, and a more performant StyleSheet.create (compared to inline styles) for native. They can be used with media queries as well.

```jsx
<Text color="red" hoverStyle={{ color: 'blue' }} />
```

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'hoverStyle',
      required: false,
      type: 'TamaguiStyleProps',
      description: 'Web only: Applies the given style on hover',
    },
    {
      name: 'pressStyle',
      required: false,
      type: 'TamaguiStyleProps',
      description: 'Applies the given style on press',
    },
    {
      name: 'focusStyle',
      required: false,
      type: 'TamaguiStyleProps',
      description: 'Applies the given style on focus',
    },
  ]}
/>

### Media query style props

Based on whatever media queries you define in `createTamagui`, you can now use any of them to apply styling on native and web using the `$` prefix.

If you defined your media query like:

```jsx
createTamagui({
  media: {
    sm: { maxWidth: 800 }
  }
})
```

Then you can use it like:

```jsx
<Text color="red" $sm={{ color: 'blue' }} />
```

### Hover Events

Tamagui adds events above the typical react-native/react-native-web View/Text props. These are:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'onHoverIn',
      required: false,
      type: '(e: HoverEvent) => void',
      description: 'Web only: maps to onMouseEnter',
    },
    {
      name: 'onHoverOut',
      required: false,
      type: '(e: HoverEvent) => void',
      description: 'Web only: maps to onMouseLeave',
    },

]}
/>
