packages/site/data/docs/components/group/1.0.0-beta.mdx, before:

---
title: Group
description: Render horizontal or vertical groups easily.
name: text
component: Group
---

# Group

<Description>Layout buttons and more with groups.</Description>

<HeroContainer>
  <GroupDemo />
</HeroContainer>

```jsx hero template=Group

```

<Highlights
  features={[
    'Accepts size prop that works on all styles.',
    'Align vertically or horizontally.',
    'Natural spacing and disabled props.',
  ]}
/>

### Usage

```jsx
import { Group, Button } from 'tamagui'

export default () => (
  <Group>
    <Button>First</Button>
    <Button>Second</Button>
    <Button>Third</Button>
  </Group>
)
```

Group will pass it's border radius down. It ensures any items inside will get appropriately scaled border radius, subtracting 1px from inner items radius, to make sure it aligns.

### Sizing

The `size` property applies to radius, and passes to children:

```jsx
import { Group, Button } from 'tamagui'

export default () => (
  <Group size="$6">
    <Button>First</Button>
    <Button>Second</Button>
    <Button>Third</Button>
  </Group>
)
```

### Disabled

The `disabled` property will pass to children

<HeroContainer>
  <GroupDisabledDemo />
</HeroContainer>

### Group API

Group extends [YStack](/docs/components/stacks), getting [Tamagui standard props](/docs/intro/props), plus:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'vertical',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Renders vertical content with rounded edges at top/bottom.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'size',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | SizeTokens',
      description: `Set a size, number or one of the size token values.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'disabled',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Pass disabled down to children.`,
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

fix(theme-base): Fix all color values to align across themes

packages/site/data/docs/components/group/1.0.0-beta.mdx, after:

---
title: Group
description: Render horizontal or vertical groups easily.
name: text
component: Group
---

# Group

<Description>Layout buttons and more with groups.</Description>

<HeroContainer>
  <GroupDemo />
</HeroContainer>

```jsx hero template=Group

```

<Highlights
  features={[
    'Accepts size prop that works on all styles.',
    'Align vertically or horizontally.',
    'Natural spacing and disabled props.',
  ]}
/>

### Usage

```jsx
import { Group, Button } from 'tamagui'

export default () => (
  <Group>
    <Button>First</Button>
    <Button>Second</Button>
    <Button>Third</Button>
  </Group>
)
```

By default, Group will control the border radius of it's children automatically - the first and last children will get their start/end radius set to match group radius. If it's a `vertical` group, it will adjust top/bottom radius, if not, left/right.

This ensures any items inside will get appropriately scaled border radius.

### Sizing

The `size` property will use your tokens to grab the appropriate radius for borderRadius values. It will also pass the `size` prop directly to `children` unless you set `disablePassSize`:

```jsx
import { Group, Button } from 'tamagui'

export default () => (
  <Group size="$6">
    <Button>First</Button>
    <Button>Second</Button>
    <Button>Third</Button>
  </Group>
)
```

### Disabled

The `disabled` property will pass to children

<HeroContainer>
  <GroupDisabledDemo />
</HeroContainer>

### Group API

Group extends [YStack](/docs/components/stacks), getting [Tamagui standard props](/docs/intro/props), plus:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'vertical',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Renders vertical content with rounded edges at top/bottom.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'size',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | SizeTokens',
      description: `Set a size, number or one of the size token values.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'disabled',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Pass disabled down to children.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'disablePassBorderRadius',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Disables passing border radius to first/last children.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'disablePassSize',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Disables passing size to children.`,
    },
  ]}
/>
