apps/site/data/docs/components/headings/1.0.0.mdx, before:

---
title: Headings
description: Heading components that mimic HTML equivalents.
name: html
component: Headings
---

# Headings

<Description>Heading components that mimic HTML equivalents.</Description>

<HeroContainer>
  <HeadingsDemo />
</HeroContainer>

```tsx hero template=Headings

```

<Highlights
  features={[
    'Accepts size prop that works on all styles.',
    'Define custom fonts with styles per-size.',
  ]}
/>

The headings all extend from the base `Heading` component. Note, this is just our own theme for Inter headings, but you can customize the styles yourself for any font completely.

Tamagui expects for your [font.size](/docs/core/configuration#font-tokens) to have the keys 1-10 so headings work with your font tokens automatically.

### How it works

The `Heading` component is defined as follows:

```tsx
export const Heading = styled(Paragraph, {
  tag: 'span',
  name: 'Heading',
  accessibilityRole: 'header',
  fontFamily: '$heading',
  size: '$8',
  margin: 0,
})
```

Note that Heading, and H1-H6 all default to the `heading` font family that must be defined in your tamagui.config.ts.

Because [Paragraph](/docs/components/text#paragraph) extends [SizableText](/docs/components/text#sizabletext), you get automatic styles based on your font theme. Let's see how `SizableText` defines the size variant, roughly, which gives a good idea of how Tamagui works, and how you could create or change your own headings at a lower level.

```tsx
import { Text } from '@tamagui/core'

const SizableText = styled(Text, {
  name: 'SizableText',
  fontFamily: '$body',
  color: '$color',

  variants: {
    size: {
      '...fontSize': (val, { tokens, props }) => {
        const family = getVariableValue(props.fontFamily) || '$body'
        const font = tokens.font[family] || tokens.font['$body']
        const fontFamily = font.family
        const fontSize = props.fontSize || font.size[val]
        const lineHeight = props.lineHeight || font.lineHeight[val]
        const fontWeight = props.fontWeight || font.weight[val]
        const letterSpacing = props.letterSpacing || font.letterSpacing[val]
        const fontStyle = props.fontStyle || font.style?.[val]
        const textTransform = props.textTransform || font.transform?.[val]
        return {
          fontStyle,
          textTransform,
          fontFamily,
          fontWeight,
          letterSpacing,
          fontSize,
          lineHeight,
        }
      },
    },
  },

  defaultVariants: {
    size: '$4',
  },
})
```

### Heading props

Headings extend [SizableText props]() inheriting all the [Tamagui standard props](/docs/intro/props).

Commit message:

fix(tooltip): uses generic tokens true for default sizing, stepped down twice

apps/site/data/docs/components/headings/1.0.0.mdx, after:

---
title: Headings
description: Heading components that mimic HTML equivalents.
name: html
component: Headings
---

# Headings

<Description>Heading components that mimic HTML equivalents.</Description>

<HeroContainer>
  <HeadingsDemo />
</HeroContainer>

```tsx hero template=Headings

```

<Highlights
  features={[
    'Accepts size prop that works on all styles.',
    'Define custom fonts with styles per-size.',
  ]}
/>

The headings all extend from the base `Heading` component. Note, this is just our own theme for Inter headings, but you can customize the styles yourself for any font completely.

Tamagui expects for your [font.size](/docs/core/configuration#font-tokens) to have the keys 1-10 so headings work with your font tokens automatically.

### How it works

The `Heading` component is defined as follows:

```tsx
export const Heading = styled(Paragraph, {
  tag: 'span',
  name: 'Heading',
  accessibilityRole: 'header',
  fontFamily: '$heading',
  size: '$8',
  margin: 0,
})
```

Note that Heading, and H1-H6 all default to the `heading` font family that must be defined in your tamagui.config.ts.

Because [Paragraph](/docs/components/text#paragraph) extends [SizableText](/docs/components/text#sizabletext), you get automatic styles based on your font theme. Let's see how `SizableText` defines the size variant, roughly, which gives a good idea of how Tamagui works, and how you could create or change your own headings at a lower level.

```tsx
import { Text } from '@tamagui/core'

const SizableText = styled(Text, {
  name: 'SizableText',
  fontFamily: '$body',
  color: '$color',

  variants: {
    size: {
      '...fontSize': (val, { tokens, props }) => {
        const family = getVariableValue(props.fontFamily) || '$body'
        const font = tokens.font[family] || tokens.font['$body']
        const fontFamily = font.family
        const fontSize = props.fontSize || font.size[val]
        const lineHeight = props.lineHeight || font.lineHeight[val]
        const fontWeight = props.fontWeight || font.weight[val]
        const letterSpacing = props.letterSpacing || font.letterSpacing[val]
        const fontStyle = props.fontStyle || font.style?.[val]
        const textTransform = props.textTransform || font.transform?.[val]
        return {
          fontStyle,
          textTransform,
          fontFamily,
          fontWeight,
          letterSpacing,
          fontSize,
          lineHeight,
        }
      },
    },
  },

  defaultVariants: {
    // note tamagui uses a generic "true" token that your sizes should set to be the same as the default on your scale
    size: '$true',
  },
})
```

### Heading props

Headings extend [SizableText props]() inheriting all the [Tamagui standard props](/docs/intro/props).
