packages/site/data/docs/guides/developing.mdx, before:

---
title: Developing with Tamagui
description: Details and helpful dev tools.
---

## Helpful exports

Some useful hooks and constants exist in `@tamagui/core`.

### Constants

For adapting things specifically to web, native, or platform:

- `isWeb` - true if rendering on web SSR or client side, false if native
- `isSSR` - true if web + SSR
- `isClient` - true if web + not SSR
- `isChrome` - true if client + Chrome
- `isWebTouchable` - true if web + touch device
- `isTouchable` - true if isWebTouchable or native
- `isWebIOS` - true if web + iOS

### Helpers

- `isTamaguiElement(child: any; name?: string) => boolean` - match Tamagui React elements.
- `extractable<A extends TamaguiComponent>(): A` - [hints for compiler to extract a HoC component](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/blob/296a71b74d3020a28e3bafd1abb748a67d535be4/packages/tamagui/src/views/Anchor.tsx#L22).
- `getExpandedShorthands(props: Object): Object` - Returns a new object with all shorthand props expanded.

## Classes generated

Tamagui generates a few helpful classes. For components created with `styled()` for which a `name` is set, like so:

```tsx
const MyButton = styled(YStack, {
  name: 'MyButton',
  backgroundColor: 'red',
})
```

Tamagui will add the classname `is_MyButton`. This is a useful escape hatch for attaching CSS to any extra component. All Tamagui components have their name set.

For component that extends a Text-based component, a further classname is set of the format `font_[fontFamily]`. So if you do:

```tsx
<Paragraph fontFamily="$body" />
```

The classname `font_body` will be output to DOM.

## Dev tools

Tamagui has two ways of giving you a lot more insight into what's happening.

### Debug pragma

Adding `// debug` to the top of any file will output a verbose stream of everything Tamagui is doing at compile-time. Use `// debug-verbose` to get much more information including more granular timings.

Use it to see what's being extracted, why, and every step along the optimization pipeline.

### Debug prop

Adding `debug` to any Tamagui component will output a lot of information on what's going on at runtime. Use it like so:

```tsx
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default () => <Button debug>Hello world</Button>
```

And you'll see props, styles, and a variety of variables relevant to processing them.

You can do `<Button debug="break" />` to have it break at the beginning of rendering, or `<Button debug="verbose" />` to have it output more detailed debug information.

### Global Tamagui

In development mode, there's a global `Tamagui` with a lot of helpful internals, including your entire parsed config from `tamagui.config.ts`.

Beyond your config, you have:

- **allSelectors**: All the selectors inserted by Tamagui (before runtime).

### Inspecting Components

Any `styled()` component will have a `staticConfig` property attached to it:

```tsx
const Circle = styled(Stack, {
  borderRadius: 1000,
})

console.log(Circle.staticConfig) // lots of helpful information
```

- `componentName` is taken from the `name` key
- `variants` contains the merged variants including parents.
- `defaultProps` is the extracted props left to use as defaults on the component.

Commit message:

Prep: import Select from floating-ui and Radix, begin integration

packages/site/data/docs/guides/developing.mdx, after:

---
title: Developing with Tamagui
description: Details and helpful dev tools.
---

## Helpful exports

Some useful hooks and constants exist in `@tamagui/core`.

### Constants

For adapting things specifically to web, native, or platform:

- `isWeb` - true if rendering on web SSR or client side, false if native
- `isSSR` - true if web + SSR
- `isClient` - true if web + not SSR
- `isChrome` - true if client + Chrome
- `isWebTouchable` - true if web + touch device
- `isTouchable` - true if isWebTouchable or native
- `isWebIOS` - true if web + iOS

### Helpers

- `isTamaguiElement(child: any; name?: string) => boolean` - match Tamagui React elements.
- `extractable<A extends TamaguiComponent>(): A` - [hints for compiler to extract a HoC component](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/blob/296a71b74d3020a28e3bafd1abb748a67d535be4/packages/tamagui/src/views/Anchor.tsx#L22).
- `getExpandedShorthands(props: Object): Object` - Returns a new object with all shorthand props expanded.

## Importing from React Native

In general either your Webpack configuration or using `@tamagui/next-plugin`, you will be aliasing `react-native` to `react-native-web`. This means you should import anything you need from `react-native` directly and never import for `react-native-web`. Your bundler will handle automatically changing it.

Tamagui (at this time) doesn't have a variety of views like ScrollView or FlatList. If you need them, just import them directly from `react-native`.

## Classes generated

Tamagui generates a few helpful classes. For components created with `styled()` where a `name` is set like this:

```tsx
const MyButton = styled(YStack, {
  name: 'MyButton',
  backgroundColor: 'red',
})
```

Tamagui adds the classname `is_MyButton`. This is a useful escape hatch for attaching CSS to any extra component. All the default Tamagui components have their name set.

For component that extends a Text-based component, a further classname is set of the format `font_[fontFamily]`. So if you do:

```tsx
<Paragraph fontFamily="$body" />
```

The classnames `is_Paragraph` and `font_body` will be output to DOM.

## Dev tools

Tamagui has two ways of giving you a lot more insight into what's happening.

### Debug pragma

Adding `// debug` to the top of any file will output a verbose stream of everything Tamagui is doing at compile-time. Use `// debug-verbose` to get much more information including more granular timings.

Use it to see what's being extracted, why, and every step along the optimization pipeline.

### Debug prop

Adding `debug` to any Tamagui component will output a lot of information on what's going on at runtime. Use it like so:

```tsx
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default () => <Button debug>Hello world</Button>
```

And you'll see props, styles, and a variety of variables relevant to processing them.

You can do `<Button debug="break" />` to have it break at the beginning of rendering, or `<Button debug="verbose" />` to have it output more detailed debug information.

### Global Tamagui

In development mode, there's a global `Tamagui` with a lot of helpful internals, including your entire parsed config from `tamagui.config.ts`.

Beyond your config, you have:

- **allSelectors**: All the selectors inserted by Tamagui (before runtime).

### Inspecting Components

Any `styled()` component will have a `staticConfig` property attached to it:

```tsx
const Circle = styled(Stack, {
  borderRadius: 1000,
})

console.log(Circle.staticConfig) // lots of helpful information
```

- `componentName` is taken from the `name` key
- `variants` contains the merged variants including parents.
- `defaultProps` is the extracted props left to use as defaults on the component.
