apps/site/data/docs/components/checkbox/1.3.0.mdx, before:

---
title: Checkbox
description: A simple checkbox component
name: checkbox
component: Checkbox
package: checkbox
---

# Checkbox

<Description>Use in forms to toggle between two states.</Description>

<HeroContainer>
  <CheckboxDemo />
</HeroContainer>

```tsx hero template=Checkbox

```

<Highlights
  features={[
    `Supports indeterminate state.`,
    `Accessible, easy to compose and customize.`,
    `Sizable & works controlled or uncontrolled.`,
    `Ability to opt-out to native checkbox on web.`,
  ]}
/>

### Usage

```tsx
import { Check } from '@tamagui/lucide-icons'
import { Checkbox } from 'tamagui'

export default () => (
  <Checkbox size="$4">
    <Checkbox.Indicator>
      <Check />
    </Checkbox.Indicator>
  </Checkbox>
)
```

### API

#### Checkbox

`Checkbox` extend Stack views inheriting all the [Tamagui standard props](/docs/intro/props), plus:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'labeledBy',
      type: 'string',
      description: `Set aria-labeled-by.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'name',
      type: 'string',
      description: `Equivalent to input name.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'value',
      type: 'string',
      description: `Give it a value (for use in HTML forms).`,
    },
    {
      name: 'checked',
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Control the input.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'defaultChecked',
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Uncontrolled default value.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'required',
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Sets aria-required.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'native',
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Renders native checkbox input on web.`,
      default: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'scaleIcon',
      type: 'number',
      description: `Scale the indicator icon more than usual by this number.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'onCheckedChange',
      type: '(checked: boolean) => void',
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

feat(checkbox): size scaling and `sizeAdjust` prop

apps/site/data/docs/components/checkbox/1.3.0.mdx, after:

---
title: Checkbox
description: A simple checkbox component
name: checkbox
component: Checkbox
package: checkbox
---

# Checkbox

<Description>Use in forms to toggle between two states.</Description>

<HeroContainer>
  <CheckboxDemo />
</HeroContainer>

```tsx hero template=Checkbox

```

<Highlights
  features={[
    `Supports indeterminate state.`,
    `Accessible, easy to compose and customize.`,
    `Sizable & works controlled or uncontrolled.`,
    `Ability to opt-out to native checkbox on web.`,
  ]}
/>

### Usage

```tsx
import { Check } from '@tamagui/lucide-icons'
import { Checkbox } from 'tamagui'

export default () => (
  <Checkbox size="$4">
    <Checkbox.Indicator>
      <Check />
    </Checkbox.Indicator>
  </Checkbox>
)
```

### API

#### Checkbox

`Checkbox` extend Stack views inheriting all the [Tamagui standard props](/docs/intro/props), plus:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'labeledBy',
      type: 'string',
      description: `Set aria-labeled-by.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'name',
      type: 'string',
      description: `Equivalent to input name.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'value',
      type: 'string',
      description: `Give it a value (for use in HTML forms).`,
    },
    {
      name: 'checked',
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Control the input.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'defaultChecked',
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Uncontrolled default value.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'required',
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Sets aria-required.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'native',
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Renders native checkbox input on web.`,
      default: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'sizeAdjust',
      type: 'number',
      description: `Adjust the checkbox size scaling by this number.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'scaleIcon',
      type: 'number',
      description: `Scale the indicator icon more than usual by this number.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'onCheckedChange',
      type: '(checked: boolean) => void',
    },
  ]}
/>
