apps/site/data/docs/components/linear-gradient/1.0.0.mdx, before:

---
title: Linear Gradient
description: Linear Gradient that works with Tamagui style props.
name: html
component: LinearGradient
---

# Linear Gradient

<Description>Linear Gradient that works with Tamagui style props.</Description>

<HeroContainer>
  <LinearGradientDemo />
</HeroContainer>

```tsx hero template=LinearGradient

```

<Highlights
  features={[
    'Works on native and web.',
    'Accepts Tamagui style props and theme colors.',
    'Bundles easily with webpack.',
  ]}
/>

### Usage

LinearGradient is a YStack that accepts all Tamagui style props as well as theme colors, that places `expo-linear-gradient` inside it set to absoluteFill.

### LinearGradient props

See the [expo docs](https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/linear-gradient/) for more complete information.

LinearGradient extends YStack, inheriting [Stack props](/docs/components/stacks) and therefore the [Tamagui standard props](/docs/intro/props), plus:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'colors',
      required: true,
      type: 'string[]',
      description: `Two or more colors.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'locations',
      required: false,
      type: 'number[] | null',
      description: `An array that contains numbers ranging from 0 to 1, inclusive, and is the same length as the colors property. Each number indicates a color-stop location where each respective color should be located.`,
      default: '[0.0, 1.0]',
    },
    {
      name: 'start',
      required: false,
      type: 'LinearGradientPoint | null',
      default: '{ x: 0.5, y: 0.0 }',
      description: `For example, { x: 0.1, y: 0.2 } means that the gradient will start 10% from the left and 20% from the top.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'end',
      required: false,
      type: 'LinearGradientPoint | null',
      default: '{ x: 0.5, y: 1.0 }',
      description: `For example, { x: 0.1, y: 0.2 } means that the gradient will end 10% from the left and 20% from the bottom.`,
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

fix(linear-gradient): Native avoid importing right away to no require expo

apps/site/data/docs/components/linear-gradient/1.0.0.mdx, after:

---
title: Linear Gradient
description: Linear Gradient that works with Tamagui style props.
name: html
component: LinearGradient
---

# Linear Gradient

<Description>Linear Gradient that works with Tamagui style props.</Description>

<HeroContainer>
  <LinearGradientDemo />
</HeroContainer>

```tsx hero template=LinearGradient

```

<Highlights
  features={[
    'Works on native and web.',
    'Accepts Tamagui style props and theme colors.',
    'Bundles easily with webpack.',
  ]}
/>

### Installation

You'll need to add `expo-linear-gradient` to your app. This works [with vanilla React Native](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/sdk-47/packages/expo-linear-gradient) or Expo.

### Usage

LinearGradient is a YStack that accepts all Tamagui style props as well as theme colors, that places `expo-linear-gradient` inside it set to absoluteFill.

### LinearGradient props

See the [expo docs](https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/linear-gradient/) for more complete information.

LinearGradient extends YStack, inheriting [Stack props](/docs/components/stacks) and therefore the [Tamagui standard props](/docs/intro/props), plus:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'colors',
      required: true,
      type: 'string[]',
      description: `Two or more colors.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'locations',
      required: false,
      type: 'number[] | null',
      description: `An array that contains numbers ranging from 0 to 1, inclusive, and is the same length as the colors property. Each number indicates a color-stop location where each respective color should be located.`,
      default: '[0.0, 1.0]',
    },
    {
      name: 'start',
      required: false,
      type: 'LinearGradientPoint | null',
      default: '{ x: 0.5, y: 0.0 }',
      description: `For example, { x: 0.1, y: 0.2 } means that the gradient will start 10% from the left and 20% from the top.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'end',
      required: false,
      type: 'LinearGradientPoint | null',
      default: '{ x: 0.5, y: 1.0 }',
      description: `For example, { x: 0.1, y: 0.2 } means that the gradient will end 10% from the left and 20% from the bottom.`,
    },
  ]}
/>
