packages/site/data/docs/components/button/1.0.0-alpha.mdx, before:

---
title: Button
description: A simple button component
name: text
---

# Button

<Description>A simple, sizable button.</Description>

<HeroContainer resetTheme>
  <ButtonDemo />
</HeroContainer>

```jsx hero template=Button

```

<Highlights
  features={[
    'Accepts size prop that works on all styles.',
    'Can inverse theme with themeInverse.',
    'Place an icon before or after.',
  ]}
/>

## Usage

```jsx
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default () => (
  <Button>
    Lorem ipsum
  </Button>
)
```

### Sizing

Sizing buttons provides a unique challenge especially for a compiler, because you need to adjust many different properties - not just on the outer frame, but on the text wrapped inside. Tamagui supports adjusting the padding, border radius, font size and icons sizes all in one with the `size` prop.

```jsx
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default () => (
  <Button size="$6">
    Lorem ipsum
  </Button>
)
```

Given your theme defines a size `6`, the button will adjust all of the properties appropriately. You can also pass a plain number to get an arbitrary size.

### Button props

Buttons extend Stack views inheriting all the [Tamagui standard props](/docs/intro/props), plus:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'size',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | tokens.size',
      description: `Set a size, number or one of the size token values.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'theme',
      required: false,
      type: 'string',
      description: `Apply a theme just to the button and it's children`,
    },
    {
      name: 'themeInverse',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Helpful for "flipping" any theme between dark and light (including flipping a sub themes defined as [subtheme]-[dark/light]`,
    },
    {
      name: 'textProps',
      required: false,
      type: 'TextProps',
      description: `By default a button wraps contents in Text and will pass textProps if set.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'noTextWrap',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `If true, Button won't wrap content with a Text element.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'icon',
      required: false,
      type: 'JSX.Element',
      description: `Pass any React element, appears before the text.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'iconAfter',
      required: false,
      type: 'JSX.Element',
      description: `Pass any React element, appears after the text.`,
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

docs(site): document button theming

packages/site/data/docs/components/button/1.0.0-alpha.mdx, after:

---
title: Button
description: A simple button component
name: text
---

# Button

<Description>A simple, sizable button.</Description>

<HeroContainer resetTheme>
  <ButtonDemo />
</HeroContainer>

```jsx hero template=Button

```

<Highlights
  features={[
    'Accepts size prop that works on all styles.',
    'Can inverse theme with themeInverse.',
    'Place an icon before or after.',
  ]}
/>

## Usage

```jsx
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default () => (
  <Button>
    Lorem ipsum
  </Button>
)
```

### Sizing

Sizing buttons provides a unique challenge especially for a compiler, because you need to adjust many different properties - not just on the outer frame, but on the text wrapped inside. Tamagui supports adjusting the padding, border radius, font size and icons sizes all in one with the `size` prop.

```jsx
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default () => (
  <Button size="$6">
    Lorem ipsum
  </Button>
)
```

Given your theme defines a size `6`, the button will adjust all of the properties appropriately. You can also pass a plain number to get an arbitrary size.

### Icon Theming

You can pass icons as either elements or components. If passing components, Tamagui will automatically pass the `size` and `color` prop to them based on your theme.

### Button props

Buttons extend Stack views inheriting all the [Tamagui standard props](/docs/intro/props), plus:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'size',
      required: false,
      type: 'string | tokens.size',
      description: `Set a size, number or one of the size token values.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'theme',
      required: false,
      type: 'string',
      description: `Apply a theme just to the button and it's children`,
    },
    {
      name: 'themeInverse',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Helpful for "flipping" any theme between dark and light (including flipping a sub themes defined as [subtheme]-[dark/light]`,
    },
    {
      name: 'textProps',
      required: false,
      type: 'TextProps',
      description: `By default a button wraps contents in Text and will pass textProps if set.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'noTextWrap',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `If true, Button won't wrap content with a Text element.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'icon',
      required: false,
      type: 'JSX.Element',
      description: `Pass any React element, appears before the text.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'iconAfter',
      required: false,
      type: 'JSX.Element',
      description: `Pass any React element, appears after the text.`,
    },
  ]}
/>
