code/tamagui.dev/data/blog/version-two.mdx, before:

---
title: Tamagui 2
publishedAt: '2024-12-29'
description: Simpler, faster, and stable.
by: nate
poster: banner-one.jpg
---

<IntroParagraph large>
  Tamagui enables small and large companies to create amazing cross-platform apps with fully shared code.
</IntroParagraph>

<IntroParagraph>
  If you want to share styling and UI across React native and web, there is no other choice that gives you as great of UX, performance, consistency, and cohesion. Tamagui is fast on every platform, outputting to native platform primitives and optionally optimizing even further with a compiler. It's featureset is 100% supported across every platform, and it has everything you need from styling, unstyled and styled components, copy-paste UI patterns, a theme generator, and a rich suite of hooks and helpers.
</IntroParagraph>

It's been exactly two years since Tamagui 1.0, which is quite a long time (though not for a lack of momentum). The reasons for the gap are a few, but mostly that 1.0 had a massive surface area, and many beta components. Instead of rushing to release new versions, we spent the time to make sure every piece of Tamagui worked better, faster, and installed more easily. Where version 1.0 was ambitious but filled with edge cases, version 2.0 marks the maturation of that ambitious vision.

If you haven't checked out Tamagui since closer to 1.0, you'll find a lot of nice improvements:

- We made is dramatically easier to install and get started thanks to our hard-fought 0-configuration install.
- We given you much better defaults out of the box with config v4.
- We made over 500 commits improving our documentation, greatly improving every area.

Commit message:

chore(core): remove StyledComponent.extractable

code/tamagui.dev/data/blog/version-two.mdx, after:

---
title: Tamagui 2
publishedAt: '2024-12-29'
description: Simpler, faster, and stable.
by: nate
poster: banner-one.jpg
---

<IntroParagraph large>
  Tamagui enables small and large companies to create amazing cross-platform apps with fully shared code.
</IntroParagraph>

<IntroParagraph>
  If you want to share styling and UI across React native and web, there is no other choice that gives you as great of UX, performance, consistency, and cohesion. Tamagui is fast on every platform, outputting to native platform primitives and optionally optimizing even further with a compiler. It's featureset is 100% supported across every platform, and it has everything you need from styling, unstyled and styled components, copy-paste UI patterns, a theme generator, and a rich suite of hooks and helpers.
</IntroParagraph>

It's been exactly two years since Tamagui 1.0, which is quite a long time (though not for a lack of momentum). The reasons for the gap are a few, but mostly that 1.0 had a massive surface area, and many beta components. Instead of rushing to release new versions, we spent the time to make sure every piece of Tamagui worked better, faster, and installed more easily. Where version 1.0 was ambitious but filled with edge cases, version 2.0 marks the maturation of that ambitious vision.

If you haven't checked out Tamagui since closer to 1.0, you'll find a lot of nice improvements:

- It's dramatically easier to install with no bundler setup at all.
- We made configuration optional, and made it easy to generate configuration.
- Over 500 commits improving documentation.
- A whole ton of features have been added since version one.

Version 2 doesn't have many breaking changes, instead it removes a few deprecated things that were holding us back from some more ambitious projects we want to take on going forward.

What has changed:

- Removed the `space` and `spaceDirection` props in favor of gap.
- Moved the `<Spacer />` component from core into `@tamagui/spacer`.
- Removed the deprecated `StyledComponent.extractable`.
- Moved all settings on `createTamagui` onto the `settings` object.
