apps/site/data/docs/intro/compiler-install.mdx, before:

---
title: Install the Compiler
description: Adding the compiler to your apps.
---

Tamagui works 100% at runtime, the compiler is optional, it's easier to get started by [skipping setting it up](/docs/core/configuration) so you can try it out in practice before committing.

Install on most platforms is as easy as configuring a library:

- [Webpack](#webpack)
- [Next.js](#nextjs) ([guide](/docs/guides/next-js))
- [Vite](#vite) ([guide](/docs/guides/vite))
- [Metro](#metro)
- [Expo](/docs/guides/expo))

<Notice>
  The compiler will generate built versions of your components and config into the `.tamagui`
  directory, relative to your app. You'll want to add this to your `.gitignore` if you don't already
  ignore dotfiles.
</Notice>

### Webpack

```bash
yarn add tamagui-loader
```

We have a full example of a [plain, webpack-only repo here](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/tree/master/apps/sandbox), which should capture the complete configuration more accurately.

Add `tamagui-loader` and set up your `webpack.config.js`:

```js
const { shouldExclude } = require('tamagui-loader')

const tamaguiOptions = {
  config: './tamagui.config.ts',
  components: ['tamagui'],
  importsWhitelist: ['constants.js', 'colors.js'],
  logTimings: true,
  disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
}

const projectRoot = __dirname

module.exports = {
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      // Resolve react-native to react-native-web
      'react-native$': require.resolve('react-native-web'),

      // Experimentally opt into react-native-web-lite which drops support for all react-native
      // built-in List components, and removes many deprecated APIs and code-reduction, slimming
      // bundle sizes down nearly 30-50Kb.
      'react-native$': 'react-native-web-lite',
      'react-native-web$': 'react-native-web-lite',

      // optional, for lighter svg icons
      'react-native-svg': require.resolve('@tamagui/react-native-svg'),
    }
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.[jt]sx?$/,
        // you'll likely want to adjust this helper function,
        // but it serves as a decent start that you can copy/paste from
        exclude: path => shouldExclude(path, projectRoot, tamaguiOptions),
        use: [
          // optionally thread-loader for significantly faster compile!
          'thread-loader',

          // works nicely alongside esbuild
          {
            loader: 'esbuild-loader',
            options: {
              loader: 'tsx',
            },
          },

          {
            loader: 'tamagui-loader',
            options: tamaguiOptions,
          },
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  plugins: [
    new webpack.DefinePlugin({
      'process.env.TAMAGUI_TARGET': '"web"',
    })
  ]
}
```

- _importsWhitelist_: Tamagui takes a conservative approach to partial evaluation, this field whitelists (matching against both .ts and .js) files to allow files that import them to read and use their values during compilation. Typically colors and constants files.
- _disableExtaction_: Useful for faster developer iteration as themes hot reload more reliably.

### Vite

Add `@tamagui/vite-plugin` and update your `vite.config.ts`:

```tsx
import { tamaguiExtractPlugin, tamaguiPlugin } from '@tamagui/vite-plugin'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    tamaguiPlugin({
      config: './src/tamagui.config.ts',
      components: ['tamagui'],
    }),
    // optional, adds the optimizing compiler:
    tamaguiExtractPlugin(tamaguiConfig),
  ],
})
```

### Next.js

Add `@tamagui/next-plugin` and configure your `next.config.js`. Here we show a fuller scope of the options

```js
// note next-compose-plugins somewhat unmaintained
// you can use a simple two-liner instead, see:
// https://github.com/cyrilwanner/next-compose-plugins/issues/59#issuecomment-1192523231
const withPlugins = require('next-compose-plugins')
const { withTamagui } = require('@tamagui/next-plugin')

export default withPlugins([
  withTamagui({
    config: './tamagui.config.ts',
    components: ['tamagui'],

    // rest are all optional:

    // Experimentally opt into react-native-web-lite which drops support for all react-native
    // built-in List components and removes many deprecated APIs for code-reduction, slimming
    // bundle sizes down nearly 30-50Kb.
    useReactNativeWebLite: true,

    // disable static extraction, faster to iterate in dev mode (default false)
    disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',

    // Exclude react-native-web modules to lighten bundle
    excludeReactNativeWebExports: ['Switch', 'ProgressBar', 'Picker'],

    // By default, we configure webpack to pass anything inside your root or design system
    // to the Tamagui loader. If you are importing files from an external package, use this:
    shouldExtract: (path: string, projectRoot: string) => {
      if (path.includes('../packages/myapp')) {
        return true
      }
    },

    // Advanced:

    // adds mini-css-extract and css-minimizer-plugin, can fix issues with unique configurations
    enableCSSOptimizations: false,
    // disable tamagui config to make fonts easier to import
    disableFontSupport: false,

    // Many packages give difficulty to the nextjs server-side (node) runtime when un-bundled.
    // for example, tamagui configures aliases like `react-native` => `react-native-web`.
    // if you're running into a module that has errors importing react-native, you'll want to
    // use a custom shouldExcludeFromServer function to include it (or override the default).
    // this is the exact same return type as webpack.externals.
    // returning undefined will let tamagui handle it, boolean or other values to override.
    shouldExcludeFromServer: ({ fullPath, request }) => {
      if (fullPath.includes('my-module')) {
        return `commonjs ${commonjs}`
      }
      if (request === 'some-hard-to-bundle-package') {
        return true
      }
    },
  })
])
```

Note: If running into issues, the environment variable `IGNORE_TS_CONFIG_PATHS` to "true" can fix issues with Tamagui being resolved incorrectly.

See the [Next.js Guide](/docs/guides/next-js) for more details on setting up your app.

#### Metro

```bash
yarn add @tamagui/babel-plugin
```

Add `@tamagui/babel-plugin` to your `babel.config.js` plugins:

```js
// only use babel-plugin for native:
process.env.TAMAGUI_TARGET = 'native'

module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    [
      '@tamagui/babel-plugin',
      {
        components: ['tamagui'],
        config: './tests/lib/tamagui.config.js',
        importsWhitelist: ['constants.js', 'colors.js'],
        logTimings: true,
        disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
      }
    ],
    // be sure to set TAMAGUI_TARGET
    ['transform-inline-environment-variables', {
      include: 'TAMAGUI_TARGET'
    }]
  ]
}
```

We've noticed some issues with `@types/react-native` version `0.65.5`, you'll want to upgrade to at least `0.66.6`.

Ensure unimodules support using [the old method](https://docs.expo.dev/bare/installing-unimodules/), or the [expo package](https://docs.expo.dev/bare/installing-expo-modules/).

Tamagui uses `@expo/match-media` and `expo-linear-gradient`, so you'll want `expo` installed to support their modules. Add `expo-linear-gradient` and `expo-screen-orientation` sub-dependencies to your package.json.

#### Expo

[Check out the Expo guide](/docs/guides/expo) for more information on setting up Expo.

### Web-only apps

If you want autocompleted imports of `react-native` without having to install all the weight of react-native, you can set `react-native` version to `0.0.0`, and add `@types/react-native` at the latest version.

### Props

All compiler plugins accept the same options:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'config',
      required: true,
      type: 'string',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      description:
        'Relative path to your tamagui.config.ts file which should export default the result from createTamagui.',
    },
    {
      name: 'components',
      required: false,
      type: 'string[]',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: "['tamagui']",
      description:
        'Array of npm modules containing Tamagui components which youll be using in your app. For example:  if you are using the base Tamagui components. This directs the compiler to load and optimize.',
    },
    {
      name: 'importsWhitelist',
      required: false,
      type: 'string[]',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      description: `Array of whitelisted file paths (always end in .js) which the compiler may try and import and parse at build-time. It is normalized to ".js" ending for all file extensions (js, jsx, tsx, ts). This usually should be set to something like ['constants.js', 'colors.js'] for example, where you have a couple mostly static files of constants that are used as default values for styles.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'logTimings',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: 'true',
      description:
        'Tamagui outputs information for each file it compiles on how long it took to run, how many components it optimized, and how many it flattened. Set to false to disable these logs.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disable',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: 'false',
      description: 'Disable everything - debug and extraction.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableExtraction',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: 'false',
      description:
        'Disable extraction to CSS completely, instead fully relying on runtime. Setting this to true speed up development as generally your app will hot reload the Tamagui configuration itself.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableDebugAttr',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: 'false',
      description:
        'If enabled along with disableExtraction, all parsing will turn off. Normally turning off disableExtraction will keep the helpful debug attributes in DOM',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableFlattening',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: 'false',
      description: 'Turns off tree-flattening.',
    },
  ]}
/>

### Dynamic Loading

By default the Tamagui compiler only optimizes `styled` expressions found in the modules defined by your `components` config. This means if you do an inline `styled()` inside your actual app directory, it will default to runtime style insertion.

This is typically Good Enough™️. As long as you define most of your common components there, you'll get a very high hit rate of compiled styles being used and runtime generation being skipped, as atomic styles with your design system tokens will be mostly pre-generated.

Tamagui has _experimental_ support for loading any component, even if it occurs somewhere outside your configured components modules. This is called "dynamic loading", for now. You can enable it with the following environment variable:

```
TAMAGUI_ENABLE_DYNAMIC_LOAD=1
```

The way it works is, when the compiler detects a styled() expression outside one of the defined component directories, it will run the following:

1. First, read the file and use a custom `babel` transform to _force_ all top-level variables to be exported.
2. Then, run `esbuild` and bundle the entire file to a temporary file in the same directory, something like `.tamagui-dynamic-eval-ComponentName.js`
3. Now, read the file in and load all new definitions found.
4. Finally, continue with optimization, using the newly optimized component.

You may see why this is experimental. It's very convenient as a developer, but has a variety of edge cases that can be confusing or breaking, and we want to avoid installation woes. Though it does continue on error and work generally, it outputs warnings in Webpack currently due to our plugin not properly indicating to Webpack about the new files (a fixable bug), which causes big yellow warning output and a cache de-opt.

We're leaving this feature under the environment variable while it matures. Let us know if you find it useful.

Commit message:

docs(site): remove need to install expo packages

apps/site/data/docs/intro/compiler-install.mdx, after:

---
title: Install the Compiler
description: Adding the compiler to your apps.
---

Tamagui works 100% at runtime, the compiler is optional, it's easier to get started by [skipping setting it up](/docs/core/configuration) so you can try it out in practice before committing.

Install on most platforms is as easy as configuring a library:

- [Webpack](#webpack)
- [Next.js](#nextjs) ([guide](/docs/guides/next-js))
- [Vite](#vite) ([guide](/docs/guides/vite))
- [Metro](#metro)
- [Expo](/docs/guides/expo))

<Notice>
  The compiler will generate built versions of your components and config into the `.tamagui`
  directory, relative to your app. You'll want to add this to your `.gitignore` if you don't already
  ignore dotfiles.
</Notice>

### Webpack

```bash
yarn add tamagui-loader
```

We have a full example of a [plain, webpack-only repo here](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/tree/master/apps/sandbox), which should capture the complete configuration more accurately.

Add `tamagui-loader` and set up your `webpack.config.js`:

```js
const { shouldExclude } = require('tamagui-loader')

const tamaguiOptions = {
  config: './tamagui.config.ts',
  components: ['tamagui'],
  importsWhitelist: ['constants.js', 'colors.js'],
  logTimings: true,
  disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
}

const projectRoot = __dirname

module.exports = {
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      // Resolve react-native to react-native-web
      'react-native$': require.resolve('react-native-web'),

      // Experimentally opt into react-native-web-lite which drops support for all react-native
      // built-in List components, and removes many deprecated APIs and code-reduction, slimming
      // bundle sizes down nearly 30-50Kb.
      'react-native$': 'react-native-web-lite',
      'react-native-web$': 'react-native-web-lite',

      // optional, for lighter svg icons
      'react-native-svg': require.resolve('@tamagui/react-native-svg'),
    }
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.[jt]sx?$/,
        // you'll likely want to adjust this helper function,
        // but it serves as a decent start that you can copy/paste from
        exclude: path => shouldExclude(path, projectRoot, tamaguiOptions),
        use: [
          // optionally thread-loader for significantly faster compile!
          'thread-loader',

          // works nicely alongside esbuild
          {
            loader: 'esbuild-loader',
            options: {
              loader: 'tsx',
            },
          },

          {
            loader: 'tamagui-loader',
            options: tamaguiOptions,
          },
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  plugins: [
    new webpack.DefinePlugin({
      'process.env.TAMAGUI_TARGET': '"web"',
    })
  ]
}
```

- _importsWhitelist_: Tamagui takes a conservative approach to partial evaluation, this field whitelists (matching against both .ts and .js) files to allow files that import them to read and use their values during compilation. Typically colors and constants files.
- _disableExtaction_: Useful for faster developer iteration as themes hot reload more reliably.

### Vite

Add `@tamagui/vite-plugin` and update your `vite.config.ts`:

```tsx
import { tamaguiExtractPlugin, tamaguiPlugin } from '@tamagui/vite-plugin'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    tamaguiPlugin({
      config: './src/tamagui.config.ts',
      components: ['tamagui'],
    }),
    // optional, adds the optimizing compiler:
    tamaguiExtractPlugin(tamaguiConfig),
  ],
})
```

### Next.js

Add `@tamagui/next-plugin` and configure your `next.config.js`. Here we show a fuller scope of the options

```js
// note next-compose-plugins somewhat unmaintained
// you can use a simple two-liner instead, see:
// https://github.com/cyrilwanner/next-compose-plugins/issues/59#issuecomment-1192523231
const withPlugins = require('next-compose-plugins')
const { withTamagui } = require('@tamagui/next-plugin')

export default withPlugins([
  withTamagui({
    config: './tamagui.config.ts',
    components: ['tamagui'],

    // rest are all optional:

    // Experimentally opt into react-native-web-lite which drops support for all react-native
    // built-in List components and removes many deprecated APIs for code-reduction, slimming
    // bundle sizes down nearly 30-50Kb.
    useReactNativeWebLite: true,

    // disable static extraction, faster to iterate in dev mode (default false)
    disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',

    // Exclude react-native-web modules to lighten bundle
    excludeReactNativeWebExports: ['Switch', 'ProgressBar', 'Picker'],

    // By default, we configure webpack to pass anything inside your root or design system
    // to the Tamagui loader. If you are importing files from an external package, use this:
    shouldExtract: (path: string, projectRoot: string) => {
      if (path.includes('../packages/myapp')) {
        return true
      }
    },

    // Advanced:

    // adds mini-css-extract and css-minimizer-plugin, can fix issues with unique configurations
    enableCSSOptimizations: false,
    // disable tamagui config to make fonts easier to import
    disableFontSupport: false,

    // Many packages give difficulty to the nextjs server-side (node) runtime when un-bundled.
    // for example, tamagui configures aliases like `react-native` => `react-native-web`.
    // if you're running into a module that has errors importing react-native, you'll want to
    // use a custom shouldExcludeFromServer function to include it (or override the default).
    // this is the exact same return type as webpack.externals.
    // returning undefined will let tamagui handle it, boolean or other values to override.
    shouldExcludeFromServer: ({ fullPath, request }) => {
      if (fullPath.includes('my-module')) {
        return `commonjs ${commonjs}`
      }
      if (request === 'some-hard-to-bundle-package') {
        return true
      }
    },
  })
])
```

Note: If running into issues, the environment variable `IGNORE_TS_CONFIG_PATHS` to "true" can fix issues with Tamagui being resolved incorrectly.

See the [Next.js Guide](/docs/guides/next-js) for more details on setting up your app.

#### Metro

```bash
yarn add @tamagui/babel-plugin
```

Add `@tamagui/babel-plugin` to your `babel.config.js` plugins:

```js
// only use babel-plugin for native:
process.env.TAMAGUI_TARGET = 'native'

module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    [
      '@tamagui/babel-plugin',
      {
        components: ['tamagui'],
        config: './tests/lib/tamagui.config.js',
        importsWhitelist: ['constants.js', 'colors.js'],
        logTimings: true,
        disableExtraction: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development',
      }
    ],
    // be sure to set TAMAGUI_TARGET
    ['transform-inline-environment-variables', {
      include: 'TAMAGUI_TARGET'
    }]
  ]
}
```

We've noticed some issues with `@types/react-native` version `0.65.5`, you'll want to upgrade to at least `0.66.6`.

Ensure unimodules support using [the old method](https://docs.expo.dev/bare/installing-unimodules/), or the [expo package](https://docs.expo.dev/bare/installing-expo-modules/).

Tamagui uses `expo-linear-gradient` for `<LinearGradient />`, so you'll need to ensure `expo-linear-gradient` is in your parent apps' package.json if you use it.

#### Expo

[Check out the Expo guide](/docs/guides/expo) for more information on setting up Expo.

### Web-only apps

If you want autocompleted imports of `react-native` without having to install all the weight of react-native, you can set `react-native` version to `0.0.0`, and add `@types/react-native` at the latest version.

### Props

All compiler plugins accept the same options:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'config',
      required: true,
      type: 'string',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      description:
        'Relative path to your tamagui.config.ts file which should export default the result from createTamagui.',
    },
    {
      name: 'components',
      required: false,
      type: 'string[]',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: "['tamagui']",
      description:
        'Array of npm modules containing Tamagui components which youll be using in your app. For example:  if you are using the base Tamagui components. This directs the compiler to load and optimize.',
    },
    {
      name: 'importsWhitelist',
      required: false,
      type: 'string[]',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      description: `Array of whitelisted file paths (always end in .js) which the compiler may try and import and parse at build-time. It is normalized to ".js" ending for all file extensions (js, jsx, tsx, ts). This usually should be set to something like ['constants.js', 'colors.js'] for example, where you have a couple mostly static files of constants that are used as default values for styles.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'logTimings',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: 'true',
      description:
        'Tamagui outputs information for each file it compiles on how long it took to run, how many components it optimized, and how many it flattened. Set to false to disable these logs.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disable',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: 'false',
      description: 'Disable everything - debug and extraction.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableExtraction',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: 'false',
      description:
        'Disable extraction to CSS completely, instead fully relying on runtime. Setting this to true speed up development as generally your app will hot reload the Tamagui configuration itself.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableDebugAttr',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: 'false',
      description:
        'If enabled along with disableExtraction, all parsing will turn off. Normally turning off disableExtraction will keep the helpful debug attributes in DOM',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableFlattening',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      typeSimple: 'enum',
      default: 'false',
      description: 'Turns off tree-flattening.',
    },
  ]}
/>

### Dynamic Loading

By default the Tamagui compiler only optimizes `styled` expressions found in the modules defined by your `components` config. This means if you do an inline `styled()` inside your actual app directory, it will default to runtime style insertion.

This is typically Good Enough™️. As long as you define most of your common components there, you'll get a very high hit rate of compiled styles being used and runtime generation being skipped, as atomic styles with your design system tokens will be mostly pre-generated.

Tamagui has _experimental_ support for loading any component, even if it occurs somewhere outside your configured components modules. This is called "dynamic loading", for now. You can enable it with the following environment variable:

```
TAMAGUI_ENABLE_DYNAMIC_LOAD=1
```

The way it works is, when the compiler detects a styled() expression outside one of the defined component directories, it will run the following:

1. First, read the file and use a custom `babel` transform to _force_ all top-level variables to be exported.
2. Then, run `esbuild` and bundle the entire file to a temporary file in the same directory, something like `.tamagui-dynamic-eval-ComponentName.js`
3. Now, read the file in and load all new definitions found.
4. Finally, continue with optimization, using the newly optimized component.

You may see why this is experimental. It's very convenient as a developer, but has a variety of edge cases that can be confusing or breaking, and we want to avoid installation woes. Though it does continue on error and work generally, it outputs warnings in Webpack currently due to our plugin not properly indicating to Webpack about the new files (a fixable bug), which causes big yellow warning output and a cache de-opt.

We're leaving this feature under the environment variable while it matures. Let us know if you find it useful.
