apps/site/data/docs/intro/compiler.mdx, before:

---
title: Fast, faster
description: Breaking out of the frontend trilemma.
---

<TLDR>

**TLDR**: The Tamagui compiler makes sharing significantly more code between native and web feel native. It speeds up web apps 100-300%, and native 15-20%.

</TLDR>

<IntroParagraph>
  The React Native motto{' '}
  <span style={{ color: 'var(--yellow10)' }}>learn once, write anywhere</span> belies a truth: apps
  only feel as good as they use The Platform™ they deploy to.
</IntroParagraph>

React Native's raison dêtre is to allow sharing concepts across platforms, along with _the UI that makes sense_. It does this adeptly, allowing for large parts of the non-interface logic and smaller parts of the interface itself to be unified, saving a lot of developer time.

But as of today, there's still a large amount of interface that we don't share, but could, with only straightforward optimizations for the web platform. This article goes into how the Tamagui compiler achieves just that.

Lets start with a hard choice all frontend developers must make:

<Table heading="Choose one">
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head></TableCell>
    <TableCell>1</TableCell>
    <TableCell>2</TableCell>
    <TableCell>3</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Strategy</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Universal</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Lean</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Big-Budget</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Native + Web</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Code Sharing</TableCell>
    <TableCell>\> 70%</TableCell>
    <TableCell>-</TableCell>
    <TableCell>\< 30%</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Ship Fast</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Feels native</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
</Table>

The `Feels Native` column is the one to pay attention to here. What's really happening here is what I've been thinking of as **the frontend trilemma**.

The same table above can be re-framed as a "choose two of three":

<Table heading="Choose two">
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell>Multi-platform</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell>Single codebase</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell>Feels native</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
</Table>

Or, better illustrated in a diagram:

<YStack maw={650} als="center">
  ![The Frontend Trilemma: Choose two of DX, UX, and multi-platform (or run out of
  time).](/trilemma.svg)
</YStack>

This choice is as old as software: target more platforms with one codebase, and sacrifice UX and performance, or target each platform and nearly double (or more) the time to ship each feature.

With React Native, it's been no different. But it's also true that incremental progress towards sharing more code, in a way that maintains native feel, has been happening steadily.

Here's how in very official and indisputable graph:

<YStack maw={650} als="center">
  ![Sharing code between web and native without sacrificing native feel has gone way up with the
  release of React Native, and later with the release of React Native Web](/code-sharing.svg)
</YStack>

React Native allowed us to share more between platforms. State, logical code, utility functions, and hooks (when they came out).

A bit later, with React Native Web, more became share-able: the big standardized API's of React Native, as well as the possibility of sharing quite a bit more UI code - at a cost.

The general trend upwards in between those two releases represents amazing work by all sorts of library authors to create smoother, better libraries and APIs all along the way - from [React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/) (and [Solito](https://solito.dev/)), to [React Native Skia](https://github.com/Shopify/react-native-skia) and [Reanimated](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/) and really just [all](https://github.com/react-native-svg/react-native-svg) [sorts](https://github.com/expo/match-media) [of](https://gorhom.github.io/react-native-bottom-sheet) [other](https://github.com/rnmapbox/maps) [libraries](https://www.google.com/search?q=expo+linear+gradient&oq=expo+linear+gradient&aqs=chrome..69i57j69i59j69i60.3994j0j1&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8).

Yet even with React Native Web, in the best cases it's simply impossible to share more than a pretty small fraction of your frontend without immediately sacrificing look and feel. This is mostly because of the web.

The web is very sensitive to Javascript in general, and the CSS-in-JS strategy that React Native Web uses basically forces you to keep all your styles in JS. This is generally a bad thing. Browsers really want you to use CSS, especailly for anything interactive. Further, React Native lacks many concept important to CSS features that make web apps feel great.

### What's holding us back

For all the great things its done, there are four things React Native Web needs to do that that would individually have a big effect on improving code sharing:

- Don't serve styles in Javascript.
- Use CSS media queries for responsivity.
- Use CSS variables for themes.
- Use CSS psuedo attributes for interactive styles.

Funny enough, the last three things would also all be big developer wins for regular old React Native.

Most of these limitations come from the React Native `StyleSheet` API. It has no concept of responsive styling (media queries), themes or sizing (CSS variables), or [pseudo styling](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes).

This means that every style you write is part of your Javascript bundle. The worst part is these features are some of the most performance sensitive - media queries, for example, are totally essential to sharing code and running them as hooks de-opts web-apps so much they will bring modern browsers to a halt at the slightest resize.

Meanwhile, pseudo styling and theme or size styling have similar profiles: very important for UX, very sensitive to performance, and very much better in CSS. The effect of the combination of all these factors is hard to understate: <span style={{ color: 'var(--yellow10)' }}>it's absolutely devastating for web performance</span>.

And then there's the authoring experience.

Want dark and light mode? Or just a nice style when a user presses or hovers on a button? Without a syntax for it, you need about 8 lines of code for what usually took 2 in CSS.

These downsides really work together to demoralize the naive, beginning Universal app developer. Especially if they are used to writing High Quality Web Apps. They go from writing DRY, simple, performant CSS to cumbersome, verbose and brittle styles that eat up main-thread time.

But if you can't afford to develop your app twice, it's either that, or nothing.

And this is nothing against React Native Web! It's responsible for a that huge bump in developer productivity.

It's simply a matter of effort to try and fix the issues. And it just so happened I had a bit of time during the pandemic, [a bit of prior art](https://github.com/jsxstyle/jsxstyle), and a really, really strong will to not have to choose two of those three options.

### How Tamagui compiles

The Tamagui compiler starts with the essentials: **it extracts all your styles to CSS**. This alone leads to about 30% increases in general performance - measured in bundle size, startup time, runtime, or Lighthouse scores.

It also gives us <span style={{ color: 'var(--yellow10)' }}>three features today that all optimize completely to CSS on the web</span>: **responsive styles (media queries)**, **theme values (CSS variables)**, **interactive styling (pseudo styles)**. Each of these features were designed hand-in-hand with the compiler to extract on the web to CSS, leaving behind nothing at all but simple render functions:

##### Input

```tsx
import { Paragraph, YStack } from 'tamagui'

const App = (props) => (
  <YStack
    padding={props.big ? '$5' : '$3'}
    {...(props.colored && {
      backgroundColor: 'green',
    })}
  >
    <Paragraph size="$2">Lorem ipsum dolor.</Paragraph>
  </YStack>
)
```

##### Output

```tsx
import { Paragraph, YStack, concatClassName } from 'tamagui'

const App = (props) => (
  <div
    className={concatClassName(
      _cn + (props.big ? _cn2 : _cn3) + (' ' + (props.colored ? _cn4 : ' '))
    )}
  >
    <span className={_cn5}>Lorem ipsum dolor.</span>
  </div>
)

const _cn5 = ' _c-scmqyp _d-1471scf _ff-xeweqh _fs-7uzi8p _lh-1l6ykvy'
const _cn4 = '  _bc-1542mo4'
const _cn3 = ' _pb_-12bic3x _pl_-7ztw5e _pr-g6vdx7 _pt-1vq430g'
const _cn2 = ' _pb-z3qxl0 _pl-14km6ah _pr-1qpq1qc _pt-1medp4i'
const _cn = ' _d-6koalj _fd-eqz5dr _fls-1q142lx '
```

For something like resizing a browser window, changing a theme, or hovering over a component, these changes have huge performance benefits. Extracting everything to CSS media queries alone (completely avoiding JS re-renders) increases browser resizing paint speed by 10x.

And it lets us write our code naturally. No more unecessary naming and glue between `StyleSheet` and your render function. No more worrying about peformance cliffs by inline anything you want.

Notice one really interesting thing the compiler does - it removes the `YStack` and `Paragraph` altogether. So not only do you get a big bump in performance from extracting to CSS at build-time, but you also net a pretty big benefit at runtime. The name for this sort of optimization is <span style={{ color: 'var(--yellow10)' }}>tree flattening</span>, and the Tamagui compiler uses [partial evaluation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partial_evaluation) to ensure it can actually flatten a lot of your views.

With tree flattening we've been able to dramatically increase render performance on the web, above the already large gains from CSS compilation. This is a benchmark of rendering a single view that has a few "variants." Typically, your app would have to render a large View with many hooks. With Tamagui, it just hands a `div` over to React:

<BenchmarkChartWeb />

Meanwhile, on Native, because we can't optimize to anything beyond vanilla React Native code, the gains are less, but still impressive given you are now leveraging a huge amount of features that normally would eat up a lot of performance. Once again, tree flattening really helps make up the difference:

<BenchmarkChartNative />

You can see [the full Benchmarks with explanations here](/docs/intro/benchmarks).

### End

I think Tamagui opens to door to a new option. It will take time for it to stabilize completely, and certainly there's tons of room for improvement, but already today we've seen apps go from sharing ~25% of code, to over 70%.

<Table heading="Choose one">
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head></TableCell>
    <TableCell>1</TableCell>
    <TableCell>2</TableCell>
    <TableCell>3</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>4</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Strategy</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Universal</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Lean</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Big-Budget</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>Universal + Compiler</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Native + Web</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>✅</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Code Sharing</TableCell>
    <TableCell>\> 70%</TableCell>
    <TableCell>-</TableCell>
    <TableCell>\< 30%</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>\> 75%</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Ship Fast</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>✅</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Feels native</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>✅</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
</Table>

Commit message:

fix(core): Fix pseudo styles not merging downwards properly when partially overriden

apps/site/data/docs/intro/compiler.mdx, after:

---
title: Fast, faster
description: Breaking out of the frontend trilemma.
---

<TLDR>

**TLDR**: The Tamagui compiler makes sharing significantly more code between native and web feel native. It speeds up web apps 100-300%, and native 15-20%.

</TLDR>

<IntroParagraph>
  The React Native motto{' '}
  <span style={{ color: 'var(--yellow10)' }}>learn once, write anywhere</span> belies a truth: apps
  only feel as good as they use The Platform™ they deploy to.
</IntroParagraph>

React Native's raison dêtre is to allow sharing concepts across platforms, along with _the UI that makes sense_. It does this adeptly, allowing for large parts of the non-interface logic and smaller parts of the interface itself to be unified, saving a lot of developer time.

But as of today, there's still a large amount of interface that we don't share, but could, with only straightforward optimizations for the web platform. This article goes into how the Tamagui compiler achieves just that.

Lets start with a hard choice all frontend developers must make:

<Table heading="Choose one">
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head></TableCell>
    <TableCell>1</TableCell>
    <TableCell>2</TableCell>
    <TableCell>3</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Strategy</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Universal</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Lean</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Big-Budget</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Native + Web</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Code Sharing</TableCell>
    <TableCell>\> 70%</TableCell>
    <TableCell>-</TableCell>
    <TableCell>\< 30%</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Ship Fast</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Feels native</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
</Table>

The `Feels Native` column is the one to pay attention to here. What's really happening here is what I've been thinking of as **the frontend trilemma**.

The same table above can be re-framed as a "choose two of three":

<Table heading="Choose two">
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell>Multi-platform</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell>Single codebase</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell>Feels native</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
</Table>

Or, better illustrated in a diagram:

<YStack maw={650} als="center">
  ![The Frontend Trilemma: Choose two of DX, UX, and multi-platform (or run out of
  time).](/trilemma.svg)
</YStack>

This choice is as old as software: target more platforms with one codebase, and sacrifice UX and performance, or target each platform and nearly double (or more) the time to ship each feature.

With React Native, it's been no different. But it's also true that incremental progress towards sharing more code, in a way that maintains native feel, has been happening steadily.

Here's how in very official and indisputable graph:

<YStack maw={650} als="center">
  ![Sharing code between web and native without sacrificing native feel has gone way up with the
  release of React Native, and later with the release of React Native Web](/code-sharing.svg)
</YStack>

React Native allowed us to share more between platforms. State, logical code, utility functions, and hooks (when they came out).

A bit later, with React Native Web, more became shareable: the big standardized API's of React Native, as well as the possibility of sharing quite a bit more UI code - though not without a cost.

The general trend upwards in between those two releases represents amazing work by all sorts of library authors to create smoother, better libraries and APIs all along the way - from [React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/) (and [Solito](https://solito.dev/)), to [React Native Skia](https://github.com/Shopify/react-native-skia) and [Reanimated](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/) and really just [all](https://github.com/react-native-svg/react-native-svg) [sorts](https://github.com/expo/match-media) [of](https://gorhom.github.io/react-native-bottom-sheet) [other](https://github.com/rnmapbox/maps) [libraries](https://www.google.com/search?q=expo+linear+gradient&oq=expo+linear+gradient&aqs=chrome..69i57j69i59j69i60.3994j0j1&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8).

Yet even with React Native Web, in the best cases it's simply impossible to share more than a pretty small fraction of your frontend without immediately sacrificing look and feel.

This is mostly because of the web.

The web is more sensitive to performance, especially when it comes to Javascript, and the CSS-in-JS strategy that React Native Web uses basically forces you to keep all your styles in JS. This is generally a bad thing. Browsers really want you to use CSS, especially for anything interactive. Further, React Native lacks many concept important to CSS features that make web apps feel great.

### What's holding us back

For all the great things its done, there are four things React Native Web needs to do that that would individually have a big effect on improving code sharing:

- Don't serve styles in Javascript.
- Use CSS media queries for responsivity.
- Use CSS variables for themes.
- Use CSS psuedo attributes for interactive styles.

Funny enough, the last three things would also all be big developer wins for regular old React Native.

Most of these limitations come from the React Native `StyleSheet` API. It has no concept of responsive styling (media queries), themes or sizing (CSS variables), or [pseudo styling](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes).

This means that every style you write is part of your Javascript bundle. The worst part is these features are some of the most performance sensitive - media queries, for example, are totally essential to sharing code and running them as hooks de-opts web-apps so much they will bring modern browsers to a halt at the slightest resize.

Meanwhile, pseudo styling and theme or size styling have similar profiles: very important for UX, very sensitive to performance, and very much better in CSS. The effect of the combination of all these factors is hard to understate: <span style={{ color: 'var(--yellow10)' }}>it's absolutely devastating for web performance</span>.

And then there's the authoring experience.

Want dark and light mode? Or just a nice style when a user presses or hovers on a button? Without a syntax for it, you need about 8 lines of code for what usually took 2 in CSS.

These downsides really work together to demoralize the naive, beginning Universal app developer. Especially if they are used to writing High Quality Web Apps. They go from writing DRY, simple, performant CSS to cumbersome, verbose and brittle styles that eat up main-thread time.

But if you can't afford to develop your app twice, it's either that, or nothing.

And this is nothing against React Native Web! It's responsible for a that huge bump in developer productivity.

It's simply a matter of effort to try and fix the issues. And it just so happened I had a bit of time during the pandemic, [a bit of prior art](https://github.com/jsxstyle/jsxstyle), and a really, really strong will to not have to choose two of those three options.

### How Tamagui compiles

The Tamagui compiler starts with the essentials: **it extracts all your styles to CSS**. This alone leads to about 30% increases in general performance - measured in bundle size, startup time, runtime, or Lighthouse scores.

It also gives us <span style={{ color: 'var(--yellow10)' }}>three features today that all optimize completely to CSS on the web</span>: **responsive styles (media queries)**, **theme values (CSS variables)**, **interactive styling (pseudo styles)**. Each of these features were designed hand-in-hand with the compiler to extract on the web to CSS, leaving behind nothing at all but simple render functions:

##### Input

```tsx
import { Paragraph, YStack } from 'tamagui'

const App = (props) => (
  <YStack
    padding={props.big ? '$5' : '$3'}
    {...(props.colored && {
      backgroundColor: 'green',
    })}
  >
    <Paragraph size="$2">Lorem ipsum dolor.</Paragraph>
  </YStack>
)
```

##### Output

```tsx
import { Paragraph, YStack, concatClassName } from 'tamagui'

const App = (props) => (
  <div
    className={concatClassName(
      _cn + (props.big ? _cn2 : _cn3) + (' ' + (props.colored ? _cn4 : ' '))
    )}
  >
    <span className={_cn5}>Lorem ipsum dolor.</span>
  </div>
)

const _cn5 = ' _c-scmqyp _d-1471scf _ff-xeweqh _fs-7uzi8p _lh-1l6ykvy'
const _cn4 = '  _bc-1542mo4'
const _cn3 = ' _pb_-12bic3x _pl_-7ztw5e _pr-g6vdx7 _pt-1vq430g'
const _cn2 = ' _pb-z3qxl0 _pl-14km6ah _pr-1qpq1qc _pt-1medp4i'
const _cn = ' _d-6koalj _fd-eqz5dr _fls-1q142lx '
```

For something like resizing a browser window, changing a theme, or hovering over a component, these changes have huge performance benefits. Extracting everything to CSS media queries alone (completely avoiding JS re-renders) increases browser resizing paint speed by 10x.

And it lets us write our code naturally. No more unecessary naming and glue between `StyleSheet` and your render function. No more worrying about peformance cliffs by inline anything you want.

Notice one really interesting thing the compiler does - it removes the `YStack` and `Paragraph` altogether. So not only do you get a big bump in performance from extracting to CSS at build-time, but you also net a pretty big benefit at runtime. The name for this sort of optimization is <span style={{ color: 'var(--yellow10)' }}>tree flattening</span>, and the Tamagui compiler uses [partial evaluation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partial_evaluation) to ensure it can actually flatten a lot of your views.

With tree flattening we've been able to dramatically increase render performance on the web, above the already large gains from CSS compilation. This is a benchmark of rendering a single view that has a few "variants." Typically, your app would have to render a large View with many hooks. With Tamagui, it just hands a `div` over to React:

<BenchmarkChartWeb />

Meanwhile, on Native, because we can't optimize to anything beyond vanilla React Native code, the gains are less, but still impressive given you are now leveraging a huge amount of features that normally would eat up a lot of performance. Once again, tree flattening really helps make up the difference:

<BenchmarkChartNative />

You can see [the full Benchmarks with explanations here](/docs/intro/benchmarks).

### End

I think Tamagui opens to door to a new option. It will take time for it to stabilize completely, and certainly there's tons of room for improvement, but already today we've seen apps go from sharing ~25% of code, to over 70%.

<Table heading="Choose one">
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head></TableCell>
    <TableCell>1</TableCell>
    <TableCell>2</TableCell>
    <TableCell>3</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>4</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Strategy</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Universal</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Lean</TableCell>
    <TableCell>Big-Budget</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>Universal + Compiler</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Native + Web</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>✅</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Code Sharing</TableCell>
    <TableCell>\> 70%</TableCell>
    <TableCell>-</TableCell>
    <TableCell>\< 30%</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>\> 75%</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Ship Fast</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>✅</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
  <TableCol>
    <TableCell head>Feels native</TableCell>
    <TableCell>❌</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell>✅</TableCell>
    <TableCell highlight>✅</TableCell>
  </TableCol>
</Table>
