apps/site/data/docs/intro/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
description: Get Tamagui set up, step by step
---

We recommend using npm create to set up one or more of the example apps via `npm create tamagui`. It's useful even if integrating into an existing app.

## Install

You can use the 0-dependency (outside of react itself) `@tamagui/core`, or move higher level with `tamagui`, which is a superset of core adding many components and hooks. We recommend yarn in general because it works well with both monorepos and React Native. Still, pnpm and npm work well too.

For just the core style library:

```bash
yarn add @tamagui/core
```

If you want `tamagui`, you can avoid core and just:

```bash
yarn add tamagui
```

Add `TamaguiProvider` at the root of your app and you are fully set up:

```tsx
// optional but recommended CSS reset:
import '@tamagui/core/reset.css'
import { TamaguiProvider, View } from '@tamagui/core'

export default () => (
  <TamaguiProvider>
    <View width={200} height={200} backgroundColor="red" />
  </TamaguiProvider>
)
```

Tamagui doesn't require any bundler setup for either web or native.

Typically you'll want to set up a few things with `createTamagui` though - for example media queries, or custom fonts.

The [configuration documentation](/docs/core/configuration) covers this in detail, but if you'd like to get started quick with some decent defaults we have `@tamagui/config`:

```tsx
import { TamaguiProvider, createTamagui } from '@tamagui/core'
import { config } from '@tamagui/config/v3'

// you usually export this from a tamagui.config.ts file
const tamaguiConfig = createTamagui(config)

// make TypeScript type everything based on your config
type Conf = typeof tamaguiConfig
declare module '@tamagui/core' {
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends Conf {}
}

export default () => {
  return (
    <TamaguiProvider config={tamaguiConfig}>
      {/* your app here */}
    </TamaguiProvider>
  )
}
```

You should be ready to use any component:

<Preview>
  <DemoButton />
</Preview>

```tsx class=preview line=5
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default function Demo() {
  return <Button>Hello world</Button>
}
```

From here, we'd recommend [spending some time understanding configuration](/docs/core/configuration). Tamagui works 100% the same at runtime as at compile-time, so you can wait until you're needing some extra performance to [set up the compiler](/docs/intro/compiler-install).


## Guides

<Notice theme="green">
  Tamagui generally doesn't require any special bundler setup, but React Native Web and the ecosystem of React Native packages often do. Tamagui provides a variety of plugins for compatibility and simplifying compiler setup.
</Notice>

We also have more in-depth guides:

<Spacer/>

<Grid gap="$4">
  <AvatarCard title="Webpack" img="/logos/webpack.svg" link="/docs/guides/webpack" subtitle="Powerful module bundler for modern JavaScript applications." colorOffset={7} />
  <AvatarCard title="Metro" img="/logos/metro.svg" link="/docs/guides/metro" subtitle="Fast, scalable, and serverlessr javaScript bundler for react Native." colorOffset={3} />
  <AvatarCard title="Vite" img="/logos/vite.svg" link="/docs/guides/vite" subtitle="Fast and modern development server and build tool." colorOffset={1} />
  <AvatarCard title="Expo" img="/logos/expo.svg" link="/docs/guides/expo" subtitle="Platform for creating universal native apps with JavaScript and React." colorOffset={6} />
  <AvatarCard fg={0} w="49%" $xs={{fg:0, w:"100%"}} title="Next.js" img="/logos/next-js.svg" link="/docs/guides/next-js" subtitle="Full-featured React framework with great developer experience." colorOffset={2}  />
</Grid>

Commit message:

docs(site): cleanup some install words

apps/site/data/docs/intro/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
description: Get Tamagui set up, step by step
---

We recommend using npm create to set up one or more of the example apps via `npm create tamagui`. It's useful even if integrating into an existing app.

## Install

The base Tamagui style library `@tamagui/core` has only one dependency - `react`.

```bash
yarn add @tamagui/core
```

If you want `tamagui`, you can avoid installing core and instead use `tamagui` everywhere as it's a superset of core:

```bash
yarn add tamagui
```

Add `TamaguiProvider` at the root of your app and you are fully set up:

```tsx
// optional but recommended CSS reset:
import '@tamagui/core/reset.css'
import { TamaguiProvider, View } from '@tamagui/core'

export default () => (
  <TamaguiProvider>
    <View width={200} height={200} backgroundColor="red" />
  </TamaguiProvider>
)
```

Tamagui doesn't require any bundler setup for either web or native, but you'll typically want to configure a few things using `createTamagui` like media queries, fonts, or tokens. The [configuration documentation](/docs/core/configuration) covers this in detail, but if you'd like to get started with decent defaults, you'll want `@tamagui/config`:

```tsx
import { TamaguiProvider, createTamagui } from '@tamagui/core'
import { config } from '@tamagui/config/v3'

// you usually export this from a tamagui.config.ts file
const tamaguiConfig = createTamagui(config)

// make TypeScript type everything based on your config
type Conf = typeof tamaguiConfig
declare module '@tamagui/core' {
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends Conf {}
}

export default () => {
  return (
    <TamaguiProvider config={tamaguiConfig}>
      {/* your app here */}
    </TamaguiProvider>
  )
}
```

You should be ready to use any component:

<Preview>
  <DemoButton />
</Preview>

```tsx class=preview line=5
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default function Demo() {
  return <Button>Hello world</Button>
}
```

From here, we'd recommend [spending some time understanding configuration](/docs/core/configuration). Tamagui works 100% the same at runtime as at compile-time, so you can wait until you're needing some extra performance to [set up the compiler](/docs/intro/compiler-install).


## Guides

<Notice theme="green">
  Tamagui generally doesn't require any special bundler setup, but React Native Web and the ecosystem of React Native packages often do. Tamagui provides a variety of plugins for compatibility and simplifying compiler setup.
</Notice>

We also have more in-depth guides:

<Spacer/>

<Grid gap="$4">
  <AvatarCard title="Webpack" img="/logos/webpack.svg" link="/docs/guides/webpack" subtitle="Powerful module bundler for modern JavaScript applications." colorOffset={7} />
  <AvatarCard title="Metro" img="/logos/metro.svg" link="/docs/guides/metro" subtitle="Fast, scalable, and serverlessr javaScript bundler for react Native." colorOffset={3} />
  <AvatarCard title="Vite" img="/logos/vite.svg" link="/docs/guides/vite" subtitle="Fast and modern development server and build tool." colorOffset={1} />
  <AvatarCard title="Expo" img="/logos/expo.svg" link="/docs/guides/expo" subtitle="Platform for creating universal native apps with JavaScript and React." colorOffset={6} />
  <AvatarCard fg={0} w="49%" $xs={{fg:0, w:"100%"}} title="Next.js" img="/logos/next-js.svg" link="/docs/guides/next-js" subtitle="Full-featured React framework with great developer experience." colorOffset={2}  />
</Grid>
