apps/site/data/docs/core/configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration
description: Custom themes, tokens, shorthands, and media queries.
---

Create a `tamagui.config.ts` in the root of your app to set up your design system. It should only be imported by the top-level file that runs `React.render`, to ensure fast refresh works.

## Quick Start

You can use `@tamagui/config-base` a totally complete config out of the box, the same one this site uses.

```tsx
import { createTamagui } from '@tamagui/core'
import { config } from '@tamagui/config-base'

const appConfig = createTamagui(config)

export type AppConfig = typeof appConfig

declare module '@tamagui/core' {
  // overrides TamaguiCustomConfig so your custom types
  // work everywhere you import `tamagui`
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends AppConfig {}
}

export default appConfig
```

[The source for that config is also useful](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/blob/master/packages/config-base/src/tamagui.config.ts) as a reference for a more complete config file.

---

Another quick start that gives a bit more customization is using `@tamagui/shorthands` for our preset shorthands, and `@tamagui/theme-base` for the same themes and tokens used for this site. The you'll just want to bring along any fonts, media queries, and animations you need.

```tsx
import { createTamagui } from '@tamagui/core'
import { shorthands } from '@tamagui/shorthands'
import { themes, tokens } from '@tamagui/theme-base'

const appConfig = createTamagui({
  themes,
  tokens,
  shorthands,
})

export type AppConfig = typeof appConfig

declare module '@tamagui/core' {
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends AppConfig {}
}

export default appConfig
```

Depending on if you're using just `@tamagui/core`, `tamagui`, or your own custom design library, be sure the import of `createTamagui` and `declare module` type matches to the one you're using.

## Overview

Let's start with a full yet slimmed down `tamagui.config.ts`:

```tsx
import { createFont, createTamagui, createTokens } from '@tamagui/core'

const interFont = createFont({
  family: 'Inter, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif',
  size: {
    1: 12,
    2: 14,
    3: 15,
    // ...
  },
  lineHeight: {
    1: 17,
    2: 22,
    3: 25,
    // ...
  },
  weight: {
    4: 300,
    6: 600,
  },
  letterSpacing: {
    4: 0,
    8: -1,
  },
  // you may also set `transform` as textTransform values
  // and `style` as fontStyle values
})

const size = {
  0: 0,
  1: 5,
  2: 10,
  // ....
}

export const tokens = createTokens({
  size,
  space: { ...size, '-1': -5, '-2': -10 },
  radius: { 0: 0, 1: 3 },
  zIndex: { 0: 0, 1: 100, 2: 200 },
  color: {
    white: '#fff',
    black: '#000',
  },
})

const config = createTamagui({
  fonts: {
    // for tamagui, heading and body are assumed
    heading: interFont,
    body: interFont,
  },
  tokens,
  themes: {
    light: {
      bg: '#f2f2f2',
      color: tokens.color.black,
    },
    dark: {
      bg: '#111',
      color: tokens.color.white,
    },
  },
  media: {
    sm: { maxWidth: 860 },
    gtSm: { minWidth: 860 + 1 },
    short: { maxHeight: 820 },
    hoverNone: { hover: 'none' },
    pointerCoarse: { pointer: 'coarse' },
  },

  // optional:

  // add custom shorthand props
  shorthands: {
    px: 'paddingHorizontal',
    f: 'flex',
    w: 'width',
  },

  // override default styles/props on every component
  defaultProps: {
    Text: {
      // override any default props here
    },
  },
})

type AppConfig = typeof config

// this will give you types for your components
// note - if using your own design system, put the package name here instead of tamagui
declare module 'tamagui' {
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends AppConfig {}
}

export default config
```

The `createTamagui` function receives a configuration object:

- `tokens`: Use `createTokens` to generate variables in your theme and app.
- `theme`: Define your design [theme](/docs/intro/themes), which map to CSS properties.
- `media`: Define reusable responsive [media queries](/docs/use-media).
- `shorthands`: Define any props you want to expand to style values, keys being the shorthand and values being the expanded style prop.
- `defaultProps`: For more advanced uses, you can override all named `styled()` components initial values. These merge downwards, so `styled(Text, { name: 'Paragraph' })` will get any defaultProps set for `Text`.

Note, for `tamagui`, it expects certain things on tokens. Space and size should both have 1-10 defined, as well as a value for `true` that maps to `4`.

<Notice>
  The compiler will parse your tamagui.config.ts file at build-time. For this reason, we comment
  keeping it relatively simple. Don't import heavy dependencies, and prefer to import
  `createTamagui` and other helpers directly from @tamagui/core.
</Notice>

### Add Provider

Import and use the Tamagui `Provider` component at the top component in your app.

```tsx line=3-5
import { TamaguiProvider } from 'tamagui'

import config from './tamagui.config'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <TamaguiProvider config={config}>
      <AppContents />
    </TamaguiProvider>
  )
}
```

#### Using Tamagui Provider

TamaguiProvider takes a few optional properties:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'defaultTheme',
      required: true,
      type: 'string',
      description: `The initial top level theme.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'disableRootThemeClass',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description:
        'Disable inserting a theme class in the DOM or context, allowing you to manually place it higher. For custom use cases like integration with next-theme.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableInjectCSS',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `By default Tamagui inserts CSS with a useLayoutEffect on load. But if you're not setting up SSR you'll want to use getCSS() instead and enable this prop.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'disableRootThemeClass',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Tamagui will insert your current root theme onto the body unless this property is enabled. This typically can be left off.`,
    },
  ]}
/>

If you use `disableInjectCSS`, you'll need to use this somewhere to insert your CSS into head:

```tsx
import Tamagui from './tamagui.config'

const css = Tamagui.getCSS()
// insert into your head
```

## Tokens

Tokens have a structure inspired by but divergent from the [Theme UI spec](https://theme-ui.com/theme-spec/). They are mapped to CSS variables at build time.

### Font tokens

The font tokens are a bit special and are created with `createFont`:

```tsx
const interFont = createFont({
  family: 'Inter, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif',
  size: {
    1: 12,
    2: 14,
    3: 15,
    // ...
  },
  lineHeight: {
    1: 17,
    2: 22,
    3: 25,
    // ...
  },
  weight: {
    4: 300,
    6: 600,
  },
  letterSpacing: {
    4: 0,
    8: -1,
  },

  // for native only, alternate family based on weight/style
  face: {
    // pass in weights as keys
    700: { normal: 'InterBold', italic: 'InterBold-Italic' },
    800: { normal: 'InterBold', italic: 'InterBold-Italic' },
    900: { normal: 'InterBold', italic: 'InterBold-Italic' },
  },
})
```

<Notice>
  Note, you don't need to use numbered keys, you can use `sm` or `tiny` or whatever you'd like. But
  you do want keep those keys consistent.
</Notice>

This gives you a lot of power over customizing every aspect of your design based on each font family. In other styling libraries that follow the Theme UI spec, you generally don't group your size/lineHeight/weight/etc tokens by the family, which means you are forced to choose a single vertical rhythm no matter the font.

Things to note:

- The keys of `size`, `lineHeight`, `weight`, and `letterSpacing` are meant to match.
- Define the full set of keys on `size`, the rest can be a subset.
- Missing keys from partially defined objects will be filled in.
  - In the example above, `weight` is only defined at `4` and `6`.
  - At creation Tamagui fills in the missing keys with previous value, or the next one if no previous exists. So weight `1` === `300`, weight `5` === `300`, and weight `7` === `600`.

---

### Non-font tokens

The rest of the tokens categories besides font are flatter. The `space` and `size` generally share keys, and that space can generally use negative keys as well.

```tsx
// passed into createTamagui
const tokens = createTokens({
  color: {
    white: '#fff',
    black: '#000',
  },
})
```

You access tokens then by using `$` prefixes in your values. Tamagui knows which tokens to use based on the style property you use.

```tsx
const App = () => (
  <Text fontSize="$lg" lineHeight="$lg" fontFamily="$mono" color="$white">
    Hello world
  </Text>
)
```

One final note: using tokens with themes. Tokens are considered a "fallback" to themes, so any values you define in your theme will override the token. The next section will explain this further.

### Strict tokens

If you'd like to enforce _only_ allowing token values from your theme, you can override the `ThemeValueFallback` type in tamagui in your `tamagui.config.ts`, like so:

```tsx
const config = createTamagui({
  ...yourConfig,
})

type AppConfig = typeof config

declare module 'tamagui' {
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends AppConfig {}
  // add this line:
  type ThemeFallbackValue = {}
}
```

This will change all special style properties that map to token/theme values to not accept strings or numbers. If you want to make exceptions, you can then add back in any general types by overriding one of the following: `SizeTokens`, `FontTokens`, `FontSizeTokens`, `FontLineHeightTokens`, `FontWeightTokens`, `FontLetterSpacingTokens`, `FontStyleTokens`, `FontTransformTokens`, `SpaceTokens`, `ColorTokens`, and `ZIndexTokens`.

### Themes

Themes live one level below tokens. Tokens are your variables, where themes use those tokens to create consistent, generic properties that you then typically use in shareable components. Themes should generally only deal with colors.

Tamagui components in general expect a set of theme keys to be defined like the following, but you can deviate if you create your own design system. See [the source for the website](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/blob/master/apps/site/constants/themes.ts) for a fuller example.

```tsx
const light = {
  background: '#fff',
  backgroundHover: tokens.color.gray2,
  backgroundPress: tokens.color.gray4,
  backgroundFocus: tokens.color.gray5,
  backgroundTransparent: tokens.color.grayA1,
  borderColor: tokens.color.gray4,
  borderColorHover: tokens.color.gray6,
  borderColorPress: tokens.color.gray12,
  borderColorFocus: tokens.color.gray11,
  color: tokens.color.gray10,
  colorHover: tokens.color.gray9,
  colorPress: tokens.color.gray8,
  colorFocus: tokens.color.gray8,
  shadowColor: tokens.color.grayA4,
  shadowColorHover: tokens.color.grayA6,
  shadowColorPress: tokens.color.grayA8,
  shadowColorFocus: tokens.color.grayA8,
  ...lightColors,
}
```

You don't have to use tokens as your theme values, but if you do they avoid some overhead. With Tamagui, the idea is that `bg`, `color`, and `borderColor` represent the "primary" and clearest colors, and `bg2`, `color2` etc get more subtle.

To see how it works, here's a snippet from `InteractiveFrame` which is the frame component that's used in `Button`:

```tsx
export const InteractiveFrame = styled(XStack, {
  borderRadius: '$1',
  paddingVertical: '$2',
  paddingHorizontal: '$3',
  backgroundColor: '$background',
  justifyContent: 'center',
  alignItems: 'center',
  cursor: 'pointer',
  flexWrap: 'nowrap',
  flexDirection: 'row',
  flexShrink: 1,

  hoverStyle: {
    backgroundColor: '$backgroundHover',
  },

  pressStyle: {
    backgroundColor: '$backgroundPress',
  },

  // ...
})
```

### Media

For more full docs on media queries, see the [useMedia docs page](/docs/core/use-media).

### Shorthands

Shorthands are defined directly on your `createTamagui` call, rather than being attached to each component, to de-couple shorthands from components. This forces component kits to standardize on the basic react-native style syntax and ensures there's only one set of abbreviations defined ever.

Here's an example of a partial shorthands configuration:

```tsx
const shorthands = {
  ac: 'alignContent',
  ai: 'alignItems',
  als: 'alignSelf',
  bblr: 'borderBottomLeftRadius',
  bbrr: 'borderBottomRightRadius',
  bc: 'backgroundColor',
  br: 'borderRadius',
  btlr: 'borderTopLeftRadius',
  btrr: 'borderTopRightRadius',
  f: 'flex',
  // ...
} as const

export default createTamagui({
  shorthands,
})
```

For a full configuration, see [@tamagui/shorthands](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/blob/master/packages/shorthands/src/index.tsx)

### Others

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'mediaQueryDefaultActive',
      required: false,
      type: 'Record<string, boolean>',
      description: `For the first render, determines which media queries are true (useful for SSR).`,
    },
    {
      name: 'cssStyleSeparator',
      required: false,
      type: 'string',
      description: `What's between each generated CSS style rule. Set as newline to more easily debug outputted CSS.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'themeClassNameOnRoot',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      default: false,
      description: `When using next-themes or anything that does SSR and attaches the theme class to the HTML tag, set this to true to have the proper CSS theme selectors generate`,
    },
    {
      name: 'shouldAddPrefersColorThemes',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      default: true,
      description: `Generates @media queries based on prefers-color-scheme for you if you have light/dark themes.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'maxDarkLightNesting',
      required: false,
      type: 'number',
      default: 3,
      description: `(Advanced) On the web, tamagui treats "dark" and "light" themes as special and generates extra CSS to avoid having to re-render the entire page. This CSS relies on specificity hacks that multiply by your sub-themes. This prop sets the maxiumum number of nested dark/light themes you can do. Defaults to 3 for a balance, but can be higher if you nest them deeply.`,
    },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

docs(site): add link to type structure of configuration

apps/site/data/docs/core/configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration
description: Custom themes, tokens, shorthands, and media queries.
---

Create a `tamagui.config.ts` in the root of your app to set up your design system. It should only be imported by the top-level file that runs `React.render`, to ensure fast refresh works.

## Quick Start

You can use `@tamagui/config-base` a totally complete config out of the box, the same one this site uses.

```tsx
import { createTamagui } from '@tamagui/core'
import { config } from '@tamagui/config-base'

const appConfig = createTamagui(config)

export type AppConfig = typeof appConfig

declare module '@tamagui/core' {
  // overrides TamaguiCustomConfig so your custom types
  // work everywhere you import `tamagui`
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends AppConfig {}
}

export default appConfig
```

[The source](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/blob/master/packages/config-base/src/tamagui.config.ts) and [type output](config-base/types/tamagui.config.d.ts) of that config is also useful as a reference for building your own custom config.

---

Another quick start that gives a bit more customization is using `@tamagui/shorthands` for our preset shorthands, and `@tamagui/theme-base` for the same themes and tokens used for this site. The you'll just want to bring along any fonts, media queries, and animations you need.

```tsx
import { createTamagui } from '@tamagui/core'
import { shorthands } from '@tamagui/shorthands'
import { themes, tokens } from '@tamagui/theme-base'

const appConfig = createTamagui({
  themes,
  tokens,
  shorthands,
})

export type AppConfig = typeof appConfig

declare module '@tamagui/core' {
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends AppConfig {}
}

export default appConfig
```

Depending on if you're using just `@tamagui/core`, `tamagui`, or your own custom design library, be sure the import of `createTamagui` and `declare module` type matches to the one you're using.

## Overview

Let's start with a full yet slimmed down `tamagui.config.ts`:

```tsx
import { createFont, createTamagui, createTokens } from '@tamagui/core'

const interFont = createFont({
  family: 'Inter, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif',
  size: {
    1: 12,
    2: 14,
    3: 15,
    // ...
  },
  lineHeight: {
    1: 17,
    2: 22,
    3: 25,
    // ...
  },
  weight: {
    4: 300,
    6: 600,
  },
  letterSpacing: {
    4: 0,
    8: -1,
  },
  // you may also set `transform` as textTransform values
  // and `style` as fontStyle values
})

const size = {
  0: 0,
  1: 5,
  2: 10,
  // ....
}

export const tokens = createTokens({
  size,
  space: { ...size, '-1': -5, '-2': -10 },
  radius: { 0: 0, 1: 3 },
  zIndex: { 0: 0, 1: 100, 2: 200 },
  color: {
    white: '#fff',
    black: '#000',
  },
})

const config = createTamagui({
  fonts: {
    // for tamagui, heading and body are assumed
    heading: interFont,
    body: interFont,
  },
  tokens,
  themes: {
    light: {
      bg: '#f2f2f2',
      color: tokens.color.black,
    },
    dark: {
      bg: '#111',
      color: tokens.color.white,
    },
  },
  media: {
    sm: { maxWidth: 860 },
    gtSm: { minWidth: 860 + 1 },
    short: { maxHeight: 820 },
    hoverNone: { hover: 'none' },
    pointerCoarse: { pointer: 'coarse' },
  },

  // optional:

  // add custom shorthand props
  shorthands: {
    px: 'paddingHorizontal',
    f: 'flex',
    w: 'width',
  },

  // override default styles/props on every component
  defaultProps: {
    Text: {
      // override any default props here
    },
  },
})

type AppConfig = typeof config

// this will give you types for your components
// note - if using your own design system, put the package name here instead of tamagui
declare module 'tamagui' {
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends AppConfig {}
}

export default config
```

The `createTamagui` function receives a configuration object:

- `tokens`: Use `createTokens` to generate variables in your theme and app.
- `theme`: Define your design [theme](/docs/intro/themes), which map to CSS properties.
- `media`: Define reusable responsive [media queries](/docs/use-media).
- `shorthands`: Define any props you want to expand to style values, keys being the shorthand and values being the expanded style prop.
- `defaultProps`: For more advanced uses, you can override all named `styled()` components initial values. These merge downwards, so `styled(Text, { name: 'Paragraph' })` will get any defaultProps set for `Text`.

Note, for `tamagui`, it expects certain things on tokens. Space and size should both have 1-10 defined, as well as a value for `true` that maps to `4`.

<Notice>
  The compiler will parse your tamagui.config.ts file at build-time. For this reason, we comment
  keeping it relatively simple. Don't import heavy dependencies, and prefer to import
  `createTamagui` and other helpers directly from @tamagui/core.
</Notice>

### Add Provider

Import and use the Tamagui `Provider` component at the top component in your app.

```tsx line=3-5
import { TamaguiProvider } from 'tamagui'

import config from './tamagui.config'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <TamaguiProvider config={config}>
      <AppContents />
    </TamaguiProvider>
  )
}
```

#### Using Tamagui Provider

TamaguiProvider takes a few optional properties:

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'defaultTheme',
      required: true,
      type: 'string',
      description: `The initial top level theme.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'disableRootThemeClass',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description:
        'Disable inserting a theme class in the DOM or context, allowing you to manually place it higher. For custom use cases like integration with next-theme.',
    },
    {
      name: 'disableInjectCSS',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `By default Tamagui inserts CSS with a useLayoutEffect on load. But if you're not setting up SSR you'll want to use getCSS() instead and enable this prop.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'disableRootThemeClass',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      description: `Tamagui will insert your current root theme onto the body unless this property is enabled. This typically can be left off.`,
    },
  ]}
/>

If you use `disableInjectCSS`, you'll need to use this somewhere to insert your CSS into head:

```tsx
import Tamagui from './tamagui.config'

const css = Tamagui.getCSS()
// insert into your head
```

## Tokens

Tokens have a structure inspired by but divergent from the [Theme UI spec](https://theme-ui.com/theme-spec/). They are mapped to CSS variables at build time.

### Font tokens

The font tokens are a bit special and are created with `createFont`:

```tsx
const interFont = createFont({
  family: 'Inter, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif',
  size: {
    1: 12,
    2: 14,
    3: 15,
    // ...
  },
  lineHeight: {
    1: 17,
    2: 22,
    3: 25,
    // ...
  },
  weight: {
    4: 300,
    6: 600,
  },
  letterSpacing: {
    4: 0,
    8: -1,
  },

  // for native only, alternate family based on weight/style
  face: {
    // pass in weights as keys
    700: { normal: 'InterBold', italic: 'InterBold-Italic' },
    800: { normal: 'InterBold', italic: 'InterBold-Italic' },
    900: { normal: 'InterBold', italic: 'InterBold-Italic' },
  },
})
```

<Notice>
  Note, you don't need to use numbered keys, you can use `sm` or `tiny` or whatever you'd like. But
  you do want keep those keys consistent.
</Notice>

This gives you a lot of power over customizing every aspect of your design based on each font family. In other styling libraries that follow the Theme UI spec, you generally don't group your size/lineHeight/weight/etc tokens by the family, which means you are forced to choose a single vertical rhythm no matter the font.

Things to note:

- The keys of `size`, `lineHeight`, `weight`, and `letterSpacing` are meant to match.
- Define the full set of keys on `size`, the rest can be a subset.
- Missing keys from partially defined objects will be filled in.
  - In the example above, `weight` is only defined at `4` and `6`.
  - At creation Tamagui fills in the missing keys with previous value, or the next one if no previous exists. So weight `1` === `300`, weight `5` === `300`, and weight `7` === `600`.

---

### Non-font tokens

The rest of the tokens categories besides font are flatter. The `space` and `size` generally share keys, and that space can generally use negative keys as well.

```tsx
// passed into createTamagui
const tokens = createTokens({
  color: {
    white: '#fff',
    black: '#000',
  },
})
```

You access tokens then by using `$` prefixes in your values. Tamagui knows which tokens to use based on the style property you use.

```tsx
const App = () => (
  <Text fontSize="$lg" lineHeight="$lg" fontFamily="$mono" color="$white">
    Hello world
  </Text>
)
```

One final note: using tokens with themes. Tokens are considered a "fallback" to themes, so any values you define in your theme will override the token. The next section will explain this further.

### Strict tokens

If you'd like to enforce _only_ allowing token values from your theme, you can override the `ThemeValueFallback` type in tamagui in your `tamagui.config.ts`, like so:

```tsx
const config = createTamagui({
  ...yourConfig,
})

type AppConfig = typeof config

declare module 'tamagui' {
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends AppConfig {}
  // add this line:
  type ThemeFallbackValue = {}
}
```

This will change all special style properties that map to token/theme values to not accept strings or numbers. If you want to make exceptions, you can then add back in any general types by overriding one of the following: `SizeTokens`, `FontTokens`, `FontSizeTokens`, `FontLineHeightTokens`, `FontWeightTokens`, `FontLetterSpacingTokens`, `FontStyleTokens`, `FontTransformTokens`, `SpaceTokens`, `ColorTokens`, and `ZIndexTokens`.

### Themes

Themes live one level below tokens. Tokens are your variables, where themes use those tokens to create consistent, generic properties that you then typically use in shareable components. Themes should generally only deal with colors.

Tamagui components in general expect a set of theme keys to be defined like the following, but you can deviate if you create your own design system. See [the source for the website](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/blob/master/apps/site/constants/themes.ts) for a fuller example.

```tsx
const light = {
  background: '#fff',
  backgroundHover: tokens.color.gray2,
  backgroundPress: tokens.color.gray4,
  backgroundFocus: tokens.color.gray5,
  backgroundTransparent: tokens.color.grayA1,
  borderColor: tokens.color.gray4,
  borderColorHover: tokens.color.gray6,
  borderColorPress: tokens.color.gray12,
  borderColorFocus: tokens.color.gray11,
  color: tokens.color.gray10,
  colorHover: tokens.color.gray9,
  colorPress: tokens.color.gray8,
  colorFocus: tokens.color.gray8,
  shadowColor: tokens.color.grayA4,
  shadowColorHover: tokens.color.grayA6,
  shadowColorPress: tokens.color.grayA8,
  shadowColorFocus: tokens.color.grayA8,
  ...lightColors,
}
```

You don't have to use tokens as your theme values, but if you do they avoid some overhead. With Tamagui, the idea is that `bg`, `color`, and `borderColor` represent the "primary" and clearest colors, and `bg2`, `color2` etc get more subtle.

To see how it works, here's a snippet from `InteractiveFrame` which is the frame component that's used in `Button`:

```tsx
export const InteractiveFrame = styled(XStack, {
  borderRadius: '$1',
  paddingVertical: '$2',
  paddingHorizontal: '$3',
  backgroundColor: '$background',
  justifyContent: 'center',
  alignItems: 'center',
  cursor: 'pointer',
  flexWrap: 'nowrap',
  flexDirection: 'row',
  flexShrink: 1,

  hoverStyle: {
    backgroundColor: '$backgroundHover',
  },

  pressStyle: {
    backgroundColor: '$backgroundPress',
  },

  // ...
})
```

### Media

For more full docs on media queries, see the [useMedia docs page](/docs/core/use-media).

### Shorthands

Shorthands are defined directly on your `createTamagui` call, rather than being attached to each component, to de-couple shorthands from components. This forces component kits to standardize on the basic react-native style syntax and ensures there's only one set of abbreviations defined ever.

Here's an example of a partial shorthands configuration:

```tsx
const shorthands = {
  ac: 'alignContent',
  ai: 'alignItems',
  als: 'alignSelf',
  bblr: 'borderBottomLeftRadius',
  bbrr: 'borderBottomRightRadius',
  bc: 'backgroundColor',
  br: 'borderRadius',
  btlr: 'borderTopLeftRadius',
  btrr: 'borderTopRightRadius',
  f: 'flex',
  // ...
} as const

export default createTamagui({
  shorthands,
})
```

For a full configuration, see [@tamagui/shorthands](https://github.com/tamagui/tamagui/blob/master/packages/shorthands/src/index.tsx)

### Others

<PropsTable
  data={[
    {
      name: 'mediaQueryDefaultActive',
      required: false,
      type: 'Record<string, boolean>',
      description: `For the first render, determines which media queries are true (useful for SSR).`,
    },
    {
      name: 'cssStyleSeparator',
      required: false,
      type: 'string',
      description: `What's between each generated CSS style rule. Set as newline to more easily debug outputted CSS.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'themeClassNameOnRoot',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      default: false,
      description: `When using next-themes or anything that does SSR and attaches the theme class to the HTML tag, set this to true to have the proper CSS theme selectors generate`,
    },
    {
      name: 'shouldAddPrefersColorThemes',
      required: false,
      type: 'boolean',
      default: true,
      description: `Generates @media queries based on prefers-color-scheme for you if you have light/dark themes.`,
    },
    {
      name: 'maxDarkLightNesting',
      required: false,
      type: 'number',
      default: 3,
      description: `(Advanced) On the web, tamagui treats "dark" and "light" themes as special and generates extra CSS to avoid having to re-render the entire page. This CSS relies on specificity hacks that multiply by your sub-themes. This prop sets the maxiumum number of nested dark/light themes you can do. Defaults to 3 for a balance, but can be higher if you nest them deeply.`,
    },
  ]}
/>
