apps/site/data/docs/core/styled.mdx, before:

---
title: styled()
description: Extend and build custom and optimizable components.
---

Create a new component by extending an existing one:

```tsx
import { GetProps, Stack, styled } from '@tamagui/core'

export const Circle = styled(Stack, {
  name: 'Circle', // useful for debugging, and Component themes
  borderRadius: 100_000_000,
})

// helper to get props for any TamaguiComponent
export type CircleProps = GetProps<typeof Circle>
```

Usage:

```tsx
<Circle x={10} y={10} backgroundColor="red" />
```

Note, `tamagui` and `@tamagui/core` both export many of the same helpers, like styled. If you are using `tamagui`, you don't need to ever add `@tamagui/core` to your package.json or import it and can instead import directly from `tamagui` itself.

The `styled` function only accepts Tamagui components or components that accept the `className` property, for now. There is a workaround option to support react-native-web components, but it's not a public API as it will likely change with their next release.

You can pass any prop that is supported by the component you are extending, even variants of the parent component. Tamagui will figure out the style props up-front, turn them into classNames, and then pass the non-style props down to the component as defaultProps.

## Variants

Let's add some variants:

```tsx
import { Stack, styled } from '@tamagui/core'

export const Circle = styled(Stack, {
  borderRadius: 100_000_000,

  variants: {
    pin: {
      top: {
        position: 'absolute',
        top: 0,
      },
    },

    centered: {
      true: {
        alignItems: 'center',
        justifyContent: 'center',
      },
    },

    size: {
      '...size': (size, { tokens }) => {
        return {
          width: tokens.size[size] ?? size,
          height: tokens.size[size] ?? size,
        }
      },
    },
  } as const,
})
```

<Notice>
  Please use `as const` for the variants definition until Typescript gains the ability to infer
  generics as const .
</Notice>

We can use these like so:

```tsx
<Circle pin="top" centered size="$lg" />
```

To learn more about to use them and all the special types, [see the docs on variants](/docs/core/variants).

## Advanced

If you are building a design system, you may like the `.extractable` static property that styled components include. It's useful for when you need a component with some logic inside of it (more than what styled variants support), but still want to support compiler extraction.

It's easier to understand through example. Let's say you want a component that always puts an icon somewhere inside of it:

```tsx
import { Heart } from '@tamagui/lucide-icons'
import { GetProps, YStack, styled } from 'tamagui'

// not exported
const CircleFrame = styled(YStack, {
  alignItems: 'center',
  justifyContent: 'center',
  // ... your custom styles here
})

type CircleProps = GetProps<typeof CircleFrame>

export const CustomCircle = ({ children, ...props }: CircleProps) => {
  return (
    <CircleFrame {...props}>
      <Heart size={20} />
      {children}
    </CircleFrame>
  )
}
```

As written above, when you use `CustomCircle`, the Tamagui compiler won't know to extract usages of it, so this will be left entirely to run at runtime:

```tsx
export default () => (
  <CustomCircle x={10} y={10} scale={1.5} hoverStyle={{ x: 20, y: 20 }}>
    {/* ... your contents ... */}
  </CustomCircle>
)
```

This should work fine, but ideally you get some optimization on this. Let's make a change to the `CustomCircle` definition:

```tsx
export const CustomCircle = CircleFrame.extractable(({ children, ...props }: CircleProps) => {
  return (
    <CircleFrame {...props}>
      <Heart size={20} />
      {children}
    </CircleFrame>
  )
})
```

Now we wrap `CustomCircle` with `CircleFrame.extractable`. Notice, as is shown above, components wrapped with extractable must return a single component, the component that extractable comes from. In this case CustomCircle must return a single `CircleFrame`, and spread all the props it accepts down to it.

Now, when use CustomCircle, the compiler can do something like this:

```tsx
const _cn = `transform-1234 hover-transform-1234`

export default () => <CustomCircle className={_cn}>{/* ... your contents ... */}</CustomCircle>
```

This nets you some runtime performance and ensures any unique styles are pulled into CSS at build-time.

## Compatibility

The `styled()` function supports Tamagui views, React Native views, and any other React component that accepts a `style` prop. If you wrap an external component that Tamagui doesn't recognize, Tamagui will assume it only supports the `style` prop and not optimize it.

If it does accept `className`, you can opt-in to className, CSS media queries, and compile-time optimization by adding `acceptsClassName`:

```tsx
import { styled } from '@tamagui/core'
import { SomeCustomComponent } from 'some-library'

export const TamaguiCustomComponent = styled(SomeCustomComponent, {
  acceptsClassName: true,
})
```

Commit message:

feat(core): Document and expose isReactNative boolean property
BREAKING CHANGE: Changed styled option from isReactNativeWeb to just isReactNative

apps/site/data/docs/core/styled.mdx, after:

---
title: styled()
description: Extend and build custom and optimizable components.
---

Create a new component by extending an existing one:

```tsx
import { GetProps, Stack, styled } from '@tamagui/core'

export const Circle = styled(Stack, {
  name: 'Circle', // useful for debugging, and Component themes
  borderRadius: 100_000_000,
})

// helper to get props for any TamaguiComponent
export type CircleProps = GetProps<typeof Circle>
```

Usage:

```tsx
<Circle x={10} y={10} backgroundColor="red" />
```

Note, `tamagui` and `@tamagui/core` both export many of the same helpers, like styled. If you are using `tamagui`, you don't need to ever add `@tamagui/core` to your package.json or import it and can instead import directly from `tamagui` itself.

The `styled` function accepts all types of components, but if you're passing in a native component be sure to add the following:

```tsx
import { Image } from 'react-native'

const MyImage = styled(Image, {
  backgroundColor: 'red'
}, {
  isReactNative: true
})
```

This requirement allows our core to be light and not depend on the huge react-native library, which is key to allowing tree shaking and small bundle sizes on the web.

You can pass any prop that is supported by the component you are extending, even variants of the parent component. Tamagui will figure out the style props up-front, turn them into classNames, and then pass the non-style props down to the component as defaultProps.

## Variants

Let's add some variants:

```tsx
import { Stack, styled } from '@tamagui/core'

export const Circle = styled(Stack, {
  borderRadius: 100_000_000,

  variants: {
    pin: {
      top: {
        position: 'absolute',
        top: 0,
      },
    },

    centered: {
      true: {
        alignItems: 'center',
        justifyContent: 'center',
      },
    },

    size: {
      '...size': (size, { tokens }) => {
        return {
          width: tokens.size[size] ?? size,
          height: tokens.size[size] ?? size,
        }
      },
    },
  } as const,
})
```

<Notice>
  Please use `as const` for the variants definition until Typescript gains the ability to infer
  generics as const .
</Notice>

We can use these like so:

```tsx
<Circle pin="top" centered size="$lg" />
```

To learn more about to use them and all the special types, [see the docs on variants](/docs/core/variants).

## Advanced

If you are building a design system, you may like the `.extractable` static property that styled components include. It's useful for when you need a component with some logic inside of it (more than what styled variants support), but still want to support compiler extraction.

It's easier to understand through example. Let's say you want a component that always puts an icon somewhere inside of it:

```tsx
import { Heart } from '@tamagui/lucide-icons'
import { GetProps, YStack, styled } from 'tamagui'

// not exported
const CircleFrame = styled(YStack, {
  alignItems: 'center',
  justifyContent: 'center',
  // ... your custom styles here
})

type CircleProps = GetProps<typeof CircleFrame>

export const CustomCircle = ({ children, ...props }: CircleProps) => {
  return (
    <CircleFrame {...props}>
      <Heart size={20} />
      {children}
    </CircleFrame>
  )
}
```

As written above, when you use `CustomCircle`, the Tamagui compiler won't know to extract usages of it, so this will be left entirely to run at runtime:

```tsx
export default () => (
  <CustomCircle x={10} y={10} scale={1.5} hoverStyle={{ x: 20, y: 20 }}>
    {/* ... your contents ... */}
  </CustomCircle>
)
```

This should work fine, but ideally you get some optimization on this. Let's make a change to the `CustomCircle` definition:

```tsx
export const CustomCircle = CircleFrame.extractable(({ children, ...props }: CircleProps) => {
  return (
    <CircleFrame {...props}>
      <Heart size={20} />
      {children}
    </CircleFrame>
  )
})
```

Now we wrap `CustomCircle` with `CircleFrame.extractable`. Notice, as is shown above, components wrapped with extractable must return a single component, the component that extractable comes from. In this case CustomCircle must return a single `CircleFrame`, and spread all the props it accepts down to it.

Now, when use CustomCircle, the compiler can do something like this:

```tsx
const _cn = `transform-1234 hover-transform-1234`

export default () => <CustomCircle className={_cn}>{/* ... your contents ... */}</CustomCircle>
```

This nets you some runtime performance and ensures any unique styles are pulled into CSS at build-time.

## Compatibility

The `styled()` function supports Tamagui views, React Native views, and any other React component that accepts a `style` prop. If you wrap an external component that Tamagui doesn't recognize, Tamagui will assume it only supports the `style` prop and not optimize it.

If it does accept `className`, you can opt-in to className, CSS media queries, and compile-time optimization by adding `acceptsClassName`:

```tsx
import { styled } from '@tamagui/core'
import { SomeCustomComponent } from 'some-library'

export const TamaguiCustomComponent = styled(SomeCustomComponent, {
  acceptsClassName: true,
})
```
