code/tamagui.dev/data/docs/intro/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
description: Get Tamagui set up, step by step
---

We recommend using npm create to set up one or more of the example apps via `npm create tamagui@latest`. It's useful even if integrating into an existing app.

## Install

The base Tamagui style library `@tamagui/core` has only one dependency - `react`.

```bash
yarn add @tamagui/core
```

If you want `tamagui`, you can avoid installing core and instead use `tamagui` everywhere as it's a superset of core:

```bash
yarn add tamagui
```

For now recommended `yarn` if you are using Tamagui in a monorepo, as it's been proven on large projects where we've found issues with others.

Add `TamaguiProvider` and pass `config` to it at the root of your app and you are fully set up:

```tsx fileName="App.tsx"
// optional but recommended CSS reset:
import '@tamagui/core/reset.css'
import { TamaguiProvider, View } from '@tamagui/core' // or 'tamagui'
import config from './tamagui.config'

export default function App() {
  return (
  <TamaguiProvider config={config}>
    <View width={200} height={200} backgroundColor="$background" />
  </TamaguiProvider>
  )
}
```

Tamagui doesn't require any bundler setup for either web or native, but you'll typically want to configure a few things using `createTamagui` like media queries, fonts, or tokens. The [configuration documentation](/docs/core/configuration) covers this in detail, but if you'd like to get started with decent defaults, you'll want `@tamagui/config`:

```bash
yarn add @tamagui/config
```

Here's a basic setup with `@tamagui/config`:

```tsx fileName="App.tsx"
import { TamaguiProvider, createTamagui } from '@tamagui/core' // or 'tamagui'
import { config } from '@tamagui/config/v3'

// you usually export this from a tamagui.config.ts file
const tamaguiConfig = createTamagui(config)

// make TypeScript type everything based on your config
type Conf = typeof tamaguiConfig
declare module '@tamagui/core' { // or 'tamagui'
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends Conf {}
}

export default () => {
  return (
    <TamaguiProvider config={tamaguiConfig}>
      {/* your app here */}
    </TamaguiProvider>
  )
}
```

You should be ready to use any component:

<Preview>
  <DemoButton />
</Preview>

```tsx class=preview line=5
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default function Demo() {
  return <Button theme="blue">Hello world</Button>
}
```

From here, we'd recommend [spending some time understanding configuration](/docs/core/configuration). Tamagui works 100% the same at runtime as at compile-time, so you can wait until you're needing some extra performance to [set up the compiler](/docs/intro/compiler-install).


## Guides

<Notice theme="green">
  Tamagui generally doesn't require any special bundler setup, but React Native Web and the ecosystem of React Native packages often do. Tamagui provides a variety of plugins for compatibility and simplifying compiler setup.
</Notice>

We also have more in-depth guides:

<Spacer/>

<Grid gap="$4">
  <LogoCard title="Webpack" img="/logos/webpack.svg" link="/docs/guides/webpack" subtitle="Powerful module bundler for modern JavaScript applications." colorOffset={0} />
  <LogoCard title="Metro" img="/logos/metro.svg" link="/docs/guides/metro" subtitle="Fast, scalable, and serverless JavaScript bundler for react Native." colorOffset={3} />
  <LogoCard title="Vite" img="/logos/vite.svg" link="/docs/guides/vite" subtitle="Fast and modern development server and build tool." colorOffset={1} />
  <LogoCard title="Expo" img="/logos/expo.svg" link="/docs/guides/expo" subtitle="Platform for creating universal native apps with JavaScript and React." colorOffset={6} />
  <LogoCard fg={0} w="49%" $xs={{fg:0, w:"100%"}} title="Next.js" img="/logos/next-js.svg" link="/docs/guides/next-js" subtitle="Full-featured React framework with great developer experience." colorOffset={2}  />
</Grid>

Commit message:

docs and fix install bug

code/tamagui.dev/data/docs/intro/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
description: Get Tamagui set up, step by step
---

We recommend using `npm create` to set up one or more of the example apps: `npm create tamagui@latest`. It gives you a variety of end-to-end examples, which is useful even if you plan to start from scratch or integrate into an existing app.

## Install

The base Tamagui style library, `@tamagui/core`, has only one dependency: React. It's good for web-only, Native, or both:

```bash
yarn add @tamagui/core
```

If you plan to use the full UI kit, you can avoid installing `@tamagui/core` altogether. Instead, use `tamagui` everywhere, as it's a strict superset of core. Anywhere in the docs where `@tamagui/core` is mentioned, you can replace it with `tamagui`:

```bash
yarn add tamagui
```

For now recommended `yarn` if you are using Tamagui in a monorepo, as it's been proven on large projects where we've found issues with others.

We recommend using `TamaguiProvider`, though it is optional. It lets you set a variety of helpful options, and also is where you can pass your custom Tamagui config. You'll want to add it at the root of your app:

```tsx fileName="App.tsx"
import { TamaguiProvider, View } from '@tamagui/core' // or 'tamagui'
import config from './tamagui.config' // see next section

export default function App() {
  return (
  <TamaguiProvider config={config}>
    <View width={200} height={200} backgroundColor="$background" />
  </TamaguiProvider>
  )
}
```

As for the config, you'll typically want to set a few things there via `createTamagui`, like media queries, fonts, or tokens. The [configuration documentation](/docs/core/configuration) covers this in detail, but if you'd like to get started with decent defaults, you'll want `@tamagui/config`:

```bash
yarn add @tamagui/config
```

Here's a basic setup with `@tamagui/config`:

```tsx fileName="App.tsx"
import { TamaguiProvider, createTamagui } from '@tamagui/core' // or 'tamagui'
import { config } from '@tamagui/config/v3'

// you usually export this from a tamagui.config.ts file
const tamaguiConfig = createTamagui(config)

// make TypeScript type everything based on your config
type Conf = typeof tamaguiConfig
declare module '@tamagui/core' { // or 'tamagui'
  interface TamaguiCustomConfig extends Conf {}
}

export default () => {
  return (
    <TamaguiProvider config={tamaguiConfig}>
      {/* your app here */}
    </TamaguiProvider>
  )
}
```

You should be ready to use any component:

<Preview>
  <DemoButton />
</Preview>

```tsx class=preview line=5
import { Button } from 'tamagui'

export default function Demo() {
  return <Button theme="blue">Hello world</Button>
}
```

From here, we'd recommend [spending some time understanding configuration](/docs/core/configuration). Tamagui works 100% the same at runtime as at compile-time, so you can wait until you're needing some extra performance to [set up the compiler](/docs/intro/compiler-install).

There's an optional CSS reset you can import somewhere at the root of your app, for a bit more normalization of styling on web:

```tsx
import '@tamagui/core/reset.css'
```


## Guides

<Notice theme="green">
  Tamagui generally doesn't require any special bundler setup, but React Native Web and the ecosystem of React Native packages often do. Tamagui provides a variety of plugins for compatibility and simplifying compiler setup.
</Notice>

We also have more in-depth guides:

<Spacer/>

<Grid gap="$4">
  <LogoCard title="Webpack" img="/logos/webpack.svg" link="/docs/guides/webpack" subtitle="Powerful module bundler for modern JavaScript applications." colorOffset={0} />
  <LogoCard title="Metro" img="/logos/metro.svg" link="/docs/guides/metro" subtitle="Fast, scalable, and serverless JavaScript bundler for react Native." colorOffset={3} />
  <LogoCard title="Vite" img="/logos/vite.svg" link="/docs/guides/vite" subtitle="Fast and modern development server and build tool." colorOffset={1} />
  <LogoCard title="Expo" img="/logos/expo.svg" link="/docs/guides/expo" subtitle="Platform for creating universal native apps with JavaScript and React." colorOffset={6} />
  <LogoCard fg={0} w="49%" $xs={{fg:0, w:"100%"}} title="Next.js" img="/logos/next-js.svg" link="/docs/guides/next-js" subtitle="Full-featured React framework with great developer experience." colorOffset={2}  />
</Grid>
